ARCANNA is the name of two different fictional comic book characters
appearing in American comic books published by . The first
character debuted as a member of the team of superheroes called the
Squadron Supreme in The Defenders #112 (October 1982). The other first
appeared in Supreme Power #18 (April 2005), later joining a team of
super heroes also called the Squadron Supreme. Both characters are not
from the main reality where stories are set in the  Universe, but
are from two separate alternate universes.(See\ Sidebar)


Fictional character biographies

Squadron Supreme (Earth-712)

The origin of Arcanna's magical abilities is still unknown. Arcanna
originally worked as a medium before becoming a professional crime
fighter who captured criminals for profit. Phillip Jones was her husband
who stayed home to raise their children Drusilla, Katrina and Andrew.
She later accepted an offer of membership into the Squadron Supreme,
making her the fifth recruit.

Midway through the Squadron Supreme maxi-series, Arcanna discovered
she was pregnant. Fearing that the other members of the Squadron would
curtail her duties as they had during her previous pregnancies, she kept
her condition a secret. She and her family moved into SQUADRON CITY, the
Squadron's new headquarters. She went into labor during the climactic
battle with Nighthawk's Redeemers. At the end of the series she gave
birth to her son, Benjamin Thomas Jones.

In SQUADRON SUPREME: DEATH OF A UNIVERSE, Arcanna switched places
with Moonglow in order to go on a mission against the Nth Man in which
she had been forbidden to participate. Her infant son Benjamin's latent
powers emerge and he saves the surviving members by switching places
with the Nth Man. The team is banished to the mainstream  Universe
following these events, and it was as Moonglow that she encountered
Quasar and the Avengers.

In SQUADRON SUPREME: NEW WORLD ORDER, Arcanna returns home to her
family and informs them of Benjamin's sacrifice. The Nth Man, now known
as MYSTERIUM, informed her that the powers of magick had changed during
her absence, and she was but a beginner in the Eldritch Arts again.
Using her magicks without retraining would do her colleagues more harm
than good, and so the Squadron Supreme was going down a road without
her. She retired from adventuring to be with her family.

Squadron Supreme (Earth-31916)

Arcanna Jones is introduced as a scientist and author of Quantum
Physics: The New Reality._ She has the ability to perceive and influence
parallel quantum dimensions. She is what physicists described as "the
ultimate observer", and can see all the quantum possibilities and choose
which will become reality. To explain this, Arcanna evokes the
Schr√∂dinger's cat paradox, which asserts if a cat in a box has a 50%
chance of being killed, it is neither alive nor dead (or both alive and
dead) until the box is opened and the cat is observed. She had come to
General Richard Alexander in hopes of finding the source of her power in
order to eliminate it. Arcanna, Dr. Emil Burbank, Raleigh Lund and Al
Gaines are ordered to apprehend or destroy Hyperion. During the ensuing
fight, Hyperion's eye-beams, Nuke's radiation blast, and Arcanna's own
quantum alterations create a brief and unexplainable skip in reality.
All five initially thought they were in an alternate reality, but it was
revealed to be their own reality two years in the future. She was
originally meant to be on a covert operations team, but that changed
after Hyperion informed reporter Jason Scott of the project and gave him
a list of the super-humans working for the government. She now works for
Squadron Supreme. Arcanna now wears a costume that is an update of the
old Squadron Supreme version.


Powers and abilities

The original Arcanna has powers similar to those of Zatanna. She can
cast a variety of spells, particularly illusions and spells to
manipulate natural substances.

Arcanna has the ability to manipulate magical forces in order to control
natural substances and forces, particularly wind, wood, and water. She
can cast illusions and project magical bolts of force. She is capable of
flight through her own powers, by conjuring winds to support her own
weight. She also possesses mystical senses. Her magic is only effective
on natural substances, except for her mystic force bolts. She possesses
expertise in magic. She is a fair hand-to-hand combatant, having
received coaching from Nighthawk and Power Princess.

The second Arcanna has powers similar to those of the Scarlet Witch, and
can manipulate reality by causing quantum-level changes which manifest
various effects at a macroscopic scale. As demonstrated, she can
literally alter the existing reality by merging it and/or shifting in
another parallel reality. The full extent of this ability is unknown,
although she has been shown to "create" a small mountain by shifting it
from another reality into her native dimension.

