BENJAMIN 'BEN' REILLY, also known as the SCARLET SPIDER, SPIDER-MAN, and
SPIDER-CARNAGE, is a fictional comic book superhero appearing in
publications by . He is a clone and ally of Peter Parker,
and is prominent in the "Clone Saga" story arc. He first appeared in
The Amazing Spider-Man is #149 (October 1975).


Publication history

Ben Reilly was first featured as Spider-Man in The Amazing Spider-Man
#149. The issue was later revisited in What If #30. The character
returned to the comics during the "Clone Saga", which ran from October
1994 to December 1996 through all five of the concurrent Spider-Man
titles — The Amazing Spider-Man, Web of Spider-Man, Spider-Man,
Spider-Man Unlimited, and The Spectacular Spider-Man. Between
November and December 1995, Scarlet Spider replaced Spider-Man in all
five of the comics' titles, which became The Amazing Scarlet Spider,
Web of Scarlet Spider, Scarlet Spider, Scarlet-Spider Unlimited,
and The Spectacular Scarlet Spider. Reilly was also featured
prominently in the supplemental material provided for the storyline,
including Spider-Man: The Lost Years and Spider-Man: Clone Journals.
The storyline was later revisited in What If vol. 2 #86. Reilly was
passed the mantle of Spider-Man and was featured throughout the
Spider-Man titles The Amazing Spider-Man, The Spectacular
Spider-Man, Spider-Man, Spider-Man Unlimited, and The Sensational
Spider-Man, which replaced Web of Spider-Man as an ongoing monthly
title. Reilly remained as the featured Spider-Man between January and
December 1996. During this period, the character was also featured in
two intercompany crossovers  vs.  with  and
Backlash/Spider-Man with Image Comics.

Though the character has not been used in mainstream continuity since
Peter Parker resumed the role of Spider-Man, the character is often
alluded to and provided the foundation to the backstory in the
Spider-Girl mythology. In January 2009, Reilly returned to comics as
Spider-Man in the third part of 's X-Men/Spider-Man miniseries.
Written by Christos Gage, the series explores episodes in the histories
of both the X-Men and Spider-Man, sticking thoroughly to the source
material of the timeframes the stories take place in. Issue #3 marked
the first new adventure featuring Reilly in more than twelve years.
Starting in 2009, and continuing into 2010,  published a six-issue
mini-series titled Spider-Man: The Clone Saga that was a retelling of
the story as it had originally been envisioned. In 2010  began
collecting the story in trade paperback form. The epic spans five books
and covers Reilly's time on the road, through his encounters with Peter
and Mary Jane, up to his role as the Scarlet Spider, as the lone spider
hero in New York.


Fictional character biography

Creation

Ben Reilly was created by the Jackal (Professor Miles Warren), and was
the first successful clone of Peter Parker; the first clone Kaine
suffered from clone degeneration which made him unstable. Through arcane
science, Reilly is imprinted with Parker's memories and in their first
encounter believed himself to be Parker. After Parker was captured by
Jackal, both Parker and Reilly found themselves in Spider-Man costumes
at Shea Stadium, and initially fought each other believing the other was
the impostor. When realizing the stakes, they decided to team up in an
attempt to save the Gwen Stacy clone and a captured Ned Leeds. In the
process, Reilly appeared to be killed in an explosion, and Parker,
fearful of the consequences of a corpse of a second Peter Parker being
found, dropped Reilly's body into a smokestack. Reilly survived and
escaped from the smokestack. When he witnessed Parker and Mary Jane
Watson in an embrace, Ben, despite acknowledging that he is a clone,
also accepted Parker’s strong sense of morality as his own, refusing to
succumb to the temptation of murdering his doppelgänger, and decided to
embark on a nomadic life. He dubbed himself "Ben Reilly", using his
uncle's first name and his aunt's maiden names Ben Parker and May Reilly
respectively. He took some old clothes Parker had intended to donate to
charity, and he left New York deeply depressed.

Exile

Stricken with influenza, Ben Reilly meets Seward Trainer, a scientist
who was secretly blackmailed by agents of Norman Osborn into keeping
track of him. Trainer helps Reilly re-establish his life, and Reilly
sees Trainer as a father figure. Reilly trusts Trainer completely
because he helps Reilly survive his aimless wanderings, provides Reilly
with forged credentials allowing him to find work for a few months at a
time. Ben subsequently moves on just before people can examine the
references closely enough to learn that they are faked, using the money
earned to fund himself until he next needs work. During this time,
Reilly is hunted by Kaine, a failed clone of Peter Parker. Kaine
believed Reilly to be the original Peter Parker and hates him for being
flawless, although initially Kaine is unsure why he is stalking Reilly
other than wanting to see him suffer. Reilly finds love with college
student/waitress Janine Godbe, but she later reveals that her true
identity is Elizabeth Tyne, a fugitive who killed her father after
enduring his repeating incestuous abuse. Although he spends some time
living with Janine, she apparently commits suicide out of guilt at her
past crimes, leaving Reilly to be constantly followed by Kaine vowing to
deny Reilly happiness for as long as he can.

Besides fighting Kaine, Reilly sporadically engages in heroics; although
he dislikes playing the hero as it reminds him of life as Peter Parker,
he finds himself unable to ignore his spider-sense. During a
particularly bleak period, Reilly works in dead-end jobs and allows
himself to be regarded as mentally handicapped rather than interact with
others. After his spider-sense prompts him to save a family from being
killed during a robbery, he accepts that he cannot give in to despair
and must try to make a difference when he can. Following this, he lives
for a short time in Italy and works as an English teacher, but is forced
to leave after a Mafia boss investigates Reilly's past when his daughter
expresses an interest in Reilly. The Mafioso learns about the gaps in
Reilly's work record and forced him to leave the city. While traveling,
Reilly fights the mystical villain D'Spayre and a psychopathic showman
named Wild-Whip.

Scarlet Spider

Five years later, Ben Reilly discovers that May Parker is dying from a
stroke, so he returns to New York. There, Reilly encounters a bitter and
angry Peter Parker following several tragedies. While they initially
come to blows, they begin working together. Soon after, Reilly dons a
makeshift costume, improved arsenals of Spider-Man's, and is dubbed the
"Scarlet Spider" by the press after he defeats Venom. This victory over
one of Spider-Man's major adversaries helps him gain the confidence he
needs to believe that he can, perhaps, be a hero in his own right.

For a brief time, Scarlet Spider joins the New Warriors after assisting
them in dealing with the Carrion virus, though none of the team
members fully accepts him because he refuses to reveal his identity out
of his obligations to protect Spider-Man's secrets. When Peter is framed
and arrested for Kaine's murders, Reilly switches places with him so
Peter can remain free and uncover the truth, and allows Parker to use
the Scarlet Spider costume for a brief time. He and Parker eventually
discover that the Jackal is alive in addition of Kaine’s motives of
stalking him, and encountering more Spider-Man clones including
Spidercide whose actions are completely opposite to both Reilly's and
Parker's as he does not possess the morality they share and wants both
of them dead. After defeating Jackal with Parker, Reilly attempts to
build his reputation as Scarlet Spider, but is ultimately forced to drop
the identity when, after getting involved in gang warfare between the
second Doctor Octopus and Alistair Smythe, a holographic version of
Scarlet Spider is created, which ruins Reilly's reputation in a vicious
rampage. Reilly concludes that the deception has worked because he is
too new on the scene for people to trust him, adopting a new identity
and abandoning his role in the New Warriors despite his attraction to
Firestar.

Spider-Man

[Ben Reilly as Spider-Man ll. Art by Dan Jurgens, and the costume
designed by Mark Bagley.] Ben Reilly later becomes the replacement
version of "Spider-Man" for a time at Peter Parker's request when the
latter retires to raise his unborn child. Reilly wears his own costume
style rather than using Parker's. Meanwhile, both men are misled by the
Jackal and Seward Trainer, working under orders from Norman Osborn, into
believing that Reilly was the original and Parker was the clone. Osborn
hopes that the revelation that his life was a lie would make Parker give
up, instead both Parker and Reilly see this as a chance to start again.
Reilly starts working at a diner called the Daily Grind; the owner
offers him a job after he paid her back a quarter that she had loaned
him, recognizing his honest nature. He also dyes his hair blond to
differentiate himself from Parker. Reilly works there for a year,
battling villains. The change in costume initially prompts the Daily
Bugle to claim there is a new Spider-Man, but Reilly and Mary Jane
throw them off the scent and the story is dropped. Only the Black Cat,
Venom, Silver Sable, Sandman, the Human Torch, and his former teammate
Firestar ever learn that they are dealing with a different Spider-Man,
although Reilly also tells Daredevil the truth, and Mysterio concludes
that there had been a substitution when studying newspapers after being
released from prison. A recently published storyline revealed that the
X-Men — specifically Cyclops, Storm, Angel, Iceman, and Wolverine — also
know the truth because Reilly told them why he was unaware of an earlier
team-up involving Peter helping the X-Men trace Mister Sinister's
activities.

Reilly later dates college students from Centennial University, Jessica
Carradine and Desiree Winthrop. Aside still mourning Janine Godbe's
apparent death, his relationship with Jessica ends because they discover
each other's secrets; Jessica's late father was the burglar who killed
Ben Parker, and Jessica witnesses that Ben and Spider-Man are apparently
the same man. Though Jessica saw Spider-Man as a hero after seeing him
selflessly rescuing people from a burning skyscraper, she realizes she
would never have a proper relationship with Ben because of their pasts.
She decides not to reveal Ben's secrets and leaves. Ben tutors Desiree
before his break up with Jessica, and eventually dates her.

 vs. 

During the  vs.  intercompany crossover storyline, Ben Reilly
inadvertently travels to a parallel reality before the rest his native
universe's inhabitants after passing by an alley during a patrol and
being exposed to the dimensional rift within it. While stranded in this
alternate reality, he encountered its heroes and villains while trying
to find a way back, briefly meeting the Joker and engaging in a fight
with the Man-Bat. Temporarily using his 'original' name of Peter Parker,
Reilly finds a job at the Daily Planet as its staff photographer for
his photos of his fight with the Man-Bat, working with the newspaper's
top reporters Lois Lane and Clark Kent; he even saves Lane from being
captured by a Scarecrow/Scarecrow team-up although he is subsequently
embarrassed when he learns of her engagement to Kent after asking her
out. Eventually, two cosmic entities force the heroes of both realities
to fight a series of duels for the survival of their respective
universes. Reilly is chosen to fight Superboy, the hybrid-clone of
Superman and Lex Luthor, and wins thanks to his spider-sense and use of
impact webbing overwhelming Superboy's raw power. Reilly later teams up
with Superboy to rescue the Daily Planet's staff from the Kingpin, and
Lane develops a slight attraction with Reilly's alter ego, before the
realities are separated again by the actions of Batman, Captain America,
and Access.

Spider-Carnage

[Ben Reilly as Spider-Carnage, from The Amazing Spider-Man #410.
Cover art by Mark Bagley.] During the "Web of Carnage" arc, Ben Reilly
is bonded with the Carnage symbiote when it escapes from Ravencroft
Institute, where its psychopathic host Cletus Kasady is being held,
through the asylum's water pipes. Reilly struggles for control of
himself, and his strong willpower prevents the symbiote from taking over
and he attempts to trap it inside of him in hopes of ending Carnage's
threats. The subsequent inner battle with the creature ends when he has
John Jameson take him to a cell designed to hold Carnage. He willingly
subjects himself to a potentially fatal dose of microwave radiation to
try to kill the symbiote, which returns to Kasady via the pipes. Seward
Trainer disappears while Ben fights with the Carnage symbiote. Reilly's
bank account is frozen and his possessions stolen while the Grind is
burned down and Reilly is framed for arson.

Blood Brothers

The Hobgoblin (Jason Macendale) is found to be perpetrating many of
these events on the orders of Gaunt and the company Multivex. It is
revealed that the mastermind of these occurrences is Norman Osborn.
Reilly's former lover Janine Godbe is taken to New York by Kaine
informing the police about her crimes and whereabouts, and the two
lovers go on the run. However, after a final confrontation between
Reilly and Kaine in a diner, Kaine accepts that he should turn himself
in to atone for his crimes. Reilly's words and Kaine's decision inspire
Godbe to do the same.

Two Spider-Men

Around the same time, Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson return to New
York after a brief time in Portland. Parker's powers had been lost
during his time away, and had erratically returned after a near-death
experience in which his body apparently reset itself. Although Parker's
powers only partially returned at first- this weakness proving
near-fatal when he briefly lost them while trying to escape a Sentinel
during the Onslaught crisis, as time went on, he and Ben began to
contemplate the possibilities of Peter returning to the role full-time,
providing the city with two Spider-Men to compensate for the recent loss
of the Fantastic Four and crucial members of the Avengers during the war
against Onslaught. Parker's powers return for good while he helps Reilly
fend off the latest attack of Gaunt after his real identity was
uncovered.

Death

Ultimately, the battle with Gaunt proves to be Ben Reilly's undoing; He
is attacked by the original Green Goblin (Norman Osborn) while Reilly's
spider-sense was still disabled by a gas Gaunt had used. Osborn reveals
Reilly's real identity as the clone, beats him unconscious then arranges
for his minions to abduct Parker, dressed Parker in the original
Spider-Man costume and takes him to Osborn's base opposite the Daily
Bugle offices. Osborn intends to blow up the building, with most of
Parker and Reilly's friends inside it after they were sent false
invitations. While Parker battles Osborn, Reilly attempts to evacuate
the Daily Bugle, but injures himself further after protecting Flash
Thompson from a bomb. While helping Parker to remove the remaining
bombs, Reilly intercepts a Goblin Glider before it can impale Parker,
but the glider damages Reilly's spine. Reilly falls several stories and
crashes onto a taxi underneath. As he lies dying, Reilly tells Parker
that Parker is now Spider-Man and will have to resume the role for
Reilly. Reilly dies and his body decomposed rapidly, although Parker was
able to remove the body from public view before the collapse completed,
the decomposition confirming Trainer's deceptions and that Reilly was
actually a clone, thus finally confirming the truth: Peter is and always
has been the real Peter Parker and the one, true Spider-Man. This
sacrifice, and concurrent still-birth of his child, leads Parker to
reclaim the Spider-Man identity.

Postmortem

Daredevil

Some months after Ben's death, Mysterio was revealed to be the
mastermind behind a recent series of attacks against Daredevil; having
learned that he was dying of an inoperable brain tumour and lung cancer,
Mysterio had sought to go out with his greatest scheme against his
greatest foe, but his analysis of newspaper articles about Ben Reilly
led him to conclude that he was not the 'true' Spider-Man, deciding to
target Daredevil instead as he didn't want to achieve his final victory
against someone 'pretending' to be his arch-nemesis and seeing Daredevil
as an appropriate substitute.

Civil War

During the Civil War, Peter Parker uses the pseudonym Ben Reilly and a
holographic disguise device given to him by Beast.

The Initiative

While on a mission to remove Spider-Man's powers, the Initiative employs
three "Spider-Men" in the Iron Spider costume to aid in the capture of
the Sinister Syndicate. They are called Scarlet Spiders by War
Machine. One of the people Mister Hyde gives Spider-Man's powers to
appears in a costume that Ben Reilly wore as the Scarlet Spider in a
jail cell, where the real Spider-Man had put him.

Ryder

Years after Ben Reilly's death, a man named Damon Ryder, and using the
alias "Raptor", appears during Aunt May's engagement party. He has
stalked the Reilly family for some time to find Ben, mistakes Parker for
Reilly and attacks. Parker changes into his costume and fights with
Ryder, who claims to be looking for Ben Reilly, who murdered his family.
Parker later finds that Ryder's entire family was killed in a fire
started by an arsonist, and that he gave a police sketch of the arsonist
that looks exactly like Parker and Reilly. Ryder then appears in New
York City and confronts Parker, still believing him to be Ben Reilly.
The two fight when Ryder threatens to target Parker's family. Ryder
gains the upper hand, then Parker's coworkers get in the way, then Ryder
hands over the article on the arsonist, and leaves. After a scuffle
with Kaine, Parker finds Ryder holding Harry Osborn and his cousins
hostage at gunpoint. As Ryder announces his plans to burn Parker's
friends and family to death right in front of him after he admits his
"true identity" as Ben Reilly, Kaine arrives and reveals that he has
been working with Ryder. Kaine exposes both Parker's identity and
Kaine's status as a "clone" of Reilly to Ryder, encouraging him to kill
him, since if Reilly is a murderer, then Parker can be driven to kill as
well. Refusing to accept this, Parker beats Ryder unconscious, affirms
his and Reilly's innocence. Kaine and Ryder escape as police arrive.
It was soon revealed that Ryder promised to help Kaine find a solution
to his cellular degeneration, however, upon learning Ryder had lied to
him, Kaine snapped his neck, seemingly ending his looming threat to
Peter Parker.

Mooted return

After the release of Spider-Man: The Clone Saga miniseries, various
blogs reviewed the series. Howard Mackie and Tom DeFalco, creators of
the miniseries told Brad Douglas, manager of the Spider-Man Crawl Space
website: "Thanks, Brad. I truly appreciate all the kind words, and that
Tom gets all the blame for the minor negatives! Tom and I would LOVE to
continue with Ben — and have pitched a series — but that is 's
call. Maybe a grassroots movement would help? Thanks again." On July
25, 2010, at the San Diego Comic-con, fans expressed their desire to see
a return of Ben Reilly. To this, assistant editor Tom Brennan replied,
"It's being worked on."

The mini series Spider-Man: The Clone Saga, in which Reilly survives
the "Revelations" battle, has been collected in paperback and harover
forms titled Spider-Man: The REAL Clone Saga (ISBN 978-0785148050).
During San Diego Comic Con 2011, a teaser image was posted on .com
of Reilly's shirt in flames, entitled "The return of The Scarlet
Spider?". It was revealed in The Amazing Spider-Man #673 and the
 Point One one-shot that Kaine will be the new Scarlet Spider in
his own ongoing series, which was confirmed by editor Steve Wacker in
the "Letters to the Editor" page of #673. Later, Ben Reilly on his
Scarlet Spider uniform appears to be fighting Kaine on the cover of
Scarlet Spider issue #21. In the issue itself it seems Ben has indeed
returned and fights Kaine for all the troubles he had to endure from the
former-villain, even removing his mask to prove to Kaine he was actually
Ben, however at the climax of the issue it is revealed that Ben Reilly
was actually Kraven the Hunter, who had drugged Kaine at some point,
Kraven appearing as Reilly only to torment Kaine.


Powers and equipment

As Spider-Man's clone, Ben Reilly possesses powers identical to Peter
Parker's, including superhuman strength, speed and agility, and the
ability to cling to almost any surface. At the time of his death, he
also has a precognitive "spider-sense" that warns him of danger.
Reilly's reflexes operate up to 40 times faster than those of a normal
person, while his strength allows him to lift 150 times his own weight,
although he has lifted much more. Because Reilly was not in the role of
Spider-Man for five years while traveling, his fighting style is less
polished than that of Parker's. However, as per the "Spider-Man
Encyclopedia", Reilly seems to enjoy fighting more than Parker. In
addition, he also possesses Peter Parker's genius-level scientific
intellect.

In the five years that Ben Reilly traveled the United States, he made
improvements over Parker's original web-shooters. Reilly's web-shooters
still had triggers on the inside palm to fire a web-line. However, three
new weapons were designed. When using a twist of the wrist on the
shooters, impact webbing is fired out as miniature web-pellets that
explode on contact, encasing a target within a web cocoon and rendering
him or her virtually immobile. Stingers are small, diamond-shaped darts
coated with a paralyzing chemical agent to incapacitate opponents.
Mini-dot tracers are shaped like miniature Frisbees, and smaller and
lighter than Parker's spider-tracers (at 1/4" of their size), which are
much faster when fired from his web-shooters. Because of Reilly's
web-shooters are bulkier than Peter Parker's as the result of the
modifications, he wears them on the outside of his costume. Like Parker,
Reilly also wears a belt that contains spare web cartridges should he
need replacements.


Other versions

MC-2

-   In the alternate future known as MC2, Ben Reilly's "niece" May
    Parker (Spider-Girl) wears his version of the Spider-Man costume and
    webshooters, having been raised on tales of her heroic "Uncle Ben".
    Like her father, May has an Uncle Ben. However, May never knew
    her uncle. Reilly's last words before his death are about her: "Take
    care of my niece, Peter... tell her about... her Uncle Ben." May
    Parker keeps Reilly's costume and webshooters in storage since his
    death, and uses them herself. When May asks her father about Reilly,
    however, Parker does not tell her that Reilly was a clone, but tells
    her that he was a cousin.
-   Ben Reilly had a son by Janine Godbe (Elizabeth Tyne), named Reilly
    Tyne, who becomes a superhero called Darkdevil. Kaine's efforts to
    save his "nephew" from cellular degeneration resulted in him being
    partly possessed by the demon Zarathos and the spirit of the
    deceased Matt Murdock. Later in the series, Kaine reformed.
-   Felicity Hardy, the daughter of Felicia Hardy (Black Cat), assumes
    the Scarlet Spider identity in an attempt to become partners
    with Spider-Girl. Peter Parker is angry at what he considers an
    inappropriate use of the identity.

 Zombies

Ben Reilly was one of the heroes on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier who
survived the zombie plague. He is seen battling the zombies; however
this plan falls apart, as Reilly is seen as one of the zombie masses.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Ben Reilly appeared in Ultimate
Spider-Man as an African-American lab assistant (instead of a clone) at
Empire State University that worked with Dr. Curt Connors. Ironically,
he combines Spider-Man's DNA obtained from Connors with ingredients from
the Venom suit to make a clone. At the end of the arc, Reilly steals a
second sample of Spider-Man's blood from the lab, after which he
creates Spider-Man's five other clones while employed by the CIA.
However, Carnage attacks the lab and the four clones escape. One of the
clones (an amalgam of Ben Reilly and Kaine of the 616 Universe) has
Kaine's insane personality and facial scars, and wears a tattered,
makeshift version of Reilly's costume. On a related note, Spider-Woman's
character plays the same role that Scarlet Spider from the original
"Clone Saga" did.

What If?_

-   What If?_ #30, "What If Spider-Man's Clone Had Lived?", depicts a
    world where, after the Jackal's bomb explodes at Shea Stadium, both
    Spider-Men are knocked unconscious and the clone awakens before
    the original. The clone, believing that he is the original Peter
    Parker, puts Parker into stasis in one of the Jackal's clone-growing
    devices and attempts to continue with life as normal. However, the
    clone has no memories from the time before the cell samples he had
    been grown from were taken, and is confused and lost in the world of
    the real Peter Parker. This memory gap and the discovery of the
    Jackal's notes on his cloning process, leads the clone to realize
    what he truly is, and he frees the real Parker just in time for both
    of them to confront a threat from the Kingpin. Afterwards, the clone
    prepares to leave to seek his own fortune, but accepts an offer from
    Parker to co-operate in "shifts", switching between being Parker
    and Spider-Man. In this story, the clone never establishes a
    separate name for himself, and is referred to as "Spider-Clone",
    "brother", or "bro" by the original Parker.
-   What If?_ vol. 2 #86, "What If Scarlet Spider Killed Spider-Man?",
    gives an alternate ending of the "Clone Saga". During the time
    Spider-Man is under the Jackal's control, the Scarlet Spider and
    Spider-Man fight until there is an explosion. Reilly's body is later
    found washed ashore and Peter Parker is believed to be dead. Reilly
    awakens in hospital and finds Parker's friends and family, who
    believe he is Parker, around his bed. The following year, Reilly and
    Mary Jane discover that their baby, May, is dying of
    blood poisoning. One night, Reilly wakes to find that May has
    been kidnapped. Ben searches for her and meets the Green Goblin, who
    reveals that he is behind the "Clone Saga" and needs May's blood for
    a serum. The two fight atop the George Washington Bridge, where Gwen
    Stacy was killed. During the struggle, they both fall into the
    river below. Reilly resurfaces with the Goblin's mask and the serum
    and is met by Mary Jane. Reilly discovers that she knows that his
    true identity is Ben Reilly. Mary Jane thanks Reilly and tells him
    to find his own identity.

Spider-Man: The Clone Saga

In September 2009, a six issue miniseries based on the clone saga comics
of the 1990s, titled Spider-Man: The Clone Saga, was issued. The
purpose of the miniseries was to tell the story as it was initially
conceived. It is a condensed version of the Clone Saga without the plot
points involving Traveler, Scrier, and covers several months of a
fictional time period. The first issue introduces readers to the
characters Ben Reilly and Kaine, and addresses Mary Jane's pregnancy and
Aunt May's hospitalization. Reilly and Parker bond after Kaine attacks
them, and Reilly decides to stay in New York, pretending to be Peter's
blond haired cousin so he can build his own life. Reilly adopts the
identity of the Scarlet Spider and begins working at the Daily Grind.

Reilly and Parker later work with Kaine to reach the lair of the shadowy
figure responsible for infecting Mary Jane and Aunt May with a deadly
genetic virus. The mysterious villain is revealed to be the Jackal, who
captures all three and reveals his plans to make an army of Spider-Man
clones to take over the world. Since Reilly is the only stable clone,
Jackal takes a sample of his blood to perfect his cloning technique.
When Jackal reveals another stage of his plan, to clone Gwen Stacy and
another unknown figure, Kaine goes berserk, breaks himself, Parker and
Reilly, free. During the subsequent fight, the clones dissolve and
Jackal plants the first seed of doubt over who is the original Peter
Parker. After Kaine kills Jackal, Reilly and Parker escape with the cure
for Aunt May's and Mary Jane's virus. Parker retires and hands the
Spider-Man identity to Reilly. Reilly spends several months in the role,
while Parker gets ready to become a father. Reilly is shown as a
less-polished Spider-Man and is somewhat insecure due to his relative
inexperience because of his exile. Eventually, Mary Jane gives birth,
Allison Mongrain kidnaps the baby, and later gives it to Kaine.

When Reilly goes searching for the baby, he is attacked by the Green
Goblin, who is revealed to be Harry Osborn and working with Kaine.
Though Reilly appears to gain the upper hand in the ensuing fight, the
Goblin impales him in the back with his glider. Miraculously, Reilly
survives the attack. Osborn had been plotting his revenge against Parker
since his apparent heart attack. Osborn creates a clone of his father,
Norman, to help him defeat Parker and Reilly; however, Norman jumps in
front of Harry's Goblin Glider as it is about to hit Parker and is
impaled in the back. Afterwards, Kaine returns baby May to Parker and
Mary Jane, Aunt May survives and wants to help raise the child, and Ben
Reilly leaves once again to travel the world and find a life for
himself.

Spider-Verse

During the Spider-Verse event, Ben Reilly of Earth-94 was recruited into
a team of multiverse Spider-Totems who were teaming up to fend off the
Inheritors, who were trying to devour each and every Spider-Totem.
In this particular universe, Peter Parker's powers did not return, with
Peter remaining in Oregon while Ben has developed into a far lighter
character without the burden of Peter's past, particularly aided by the
string of successes he had as Spider-Man, including saving Marla Jameson
from Alistair Smythe and preventing Doctor Octopus from taking his
body.

This version of Ben Reilly lead a team featuring fellow-clones Kaine and
the Jessica Drew from the Ultimate universe, who are sent on a mission
that requires their 'expertise' as clones of Spider-Man. The team
ends up infiltrating Earth-802, a world conquered by the Inheritors and
is ruled over by Jennix a member of the Inheritors whose own efforts to
clone spider-totems failed to clone the spider-essence itself- in which
they battled the dimension's version of Iron Man, the Human Torch and
then Jennix himself. Reilly would later sacrifice himself to destroy the
cloning facility of the Inheritors, typically used to resurrect them if
they fall during their trips to other worlds.


In other media

Television

-   Scarlet Spider made his first animated appearance on the 1994
    Fantastic Four episode "Nightmare in Green". His shadowed figure
    can be seen hanging underneath a building ledge where Doctor Doom
    fools the Hulk into believing that the Fantastic Four are his
    enemies and then Rick Jones is hanging out with the Human Torch.

-   Scarlet Spider appeared in the X-Men animated series episode "One
    Man's Worth" (Part 1) where he is briefly featured in one of the
    scenes depicting a large battle.

-   Scarlet Spider and Spider-Carnage appear in a central role for
    Spider-Man: The Animated Series, both voiced by Christopher Daniel
    Barnes. In the series finale "Spider Wars", numerous versions of
    Spider-Man from different realities team up, including Ben Reilly as
    Scarlet Spider. As Scarlet Spider explains his origins to
    Spider-Man, he and Spider-Carnage (the series finale's main villain)
    realize they're related—Scarlet Spider is Spider-Man's clone or vice
    versa; the Miles Warren in their reality had "robbed them of
    their pasts". Due to the confusion, the Peter Parker that became Ben
    Reilly dyed his hair yellow and took on the alias of Scarlet Spider.
    The Spider-Man of that world, already struggling with the idea that
    he might not be the real Peter Parker and infuriated by Scarlet
    Spider's existence, met up with the Scarlet Spider at the Kingpin's
    lair and tried to kill him. The Carnage symbiote emerged from an
    open inter-dimensional portal and bonded with Spider-Man, driving
    him completely insane and turning him into Spider-Carnage. Hearing
    this, Spider-Man remarks "This is starting to sound like a bad comic
    book plot!". Spider-Carnage nearly destroyed the
    entire multiverse. However, Beyond and Madame Web were able to
    rewind time enough to gather Spider-Men worthy enough to stop the
    madman with Ben Reilly being amongst them. In the high-tech
    Spider-man's reality, Spider-Caranage meets that reality's Uncle Ben
    which causes him to gain clarity briefly, making him jump into a
    portal that destroys the Carnage symbiote and himself.

-   The Scarlet Spider that appears in Ultimate Spider-Man vs. The
    Sinister Six is credited as "Ben Reilly" and voiced by Scott
    Porter. This variation is shown to have stingers under his arms and
    has a personal vendetta against Doc Ock. His costume is identical to
    that of Kaine's costume from the Scarlet Spider comics. He refers to
    himself as "the first spider" and "not of your world", leaving his
    origin and identity deliberately vague. In the episode "Force of
    Nature," Scarlet Spider meets Aunt May while trying to get her away
    from Hydro-Man's rampage. When unmasked, Scarlet Spider has a scar
    on his face and states that he doesn't have a name. Aunt May names
    him Ben.

Video games

-   Ben Reilly's attires appear as alternate costumes for Spider-Man
    (Peter Parker) where neither costume grants extra abilities in
    several video games:
    -   Ben Reilly's Scarlet Spider and Spider-Man designs are alternate
        costumes for Spider-Man in the 2000 video game Spider-Man and
        2001 sequel Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro.
    -   In Wii version of Spider-Man: Web of Shadows, Ben Reilly's
        Spider-Man costume is an alternate for Spider-Man's normal
        attire while his Spider-Carnage costume is an alternate for
        Symbiote Spider-Man's attire.
    -   Ben Reilly's Scarlet Spider attire serves as one of Spider-Man's
        alternate costumes in : Ultimate Alliance, Spider-Man:
        Shattered Dimensions, Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3 and
        Spider-Man: Edge of Time.
    -   His Spider-Carnage suit can be unlocked in The Amazing
        Spider-Man 2.
-   The character appears as two separate playable characters in 
    Super Hero Squad Online, with Scarlet Spider voiced by Chris Cox
    and Spider-Man voiced by Yuri Lowenthal.

Toys

Action figures of Ben Reilly have been released over the years,
including some released after the character's death:

-   1996: Reilly, as the Scarlet-Spider, as an action figure by ToyBiz
    in the " OverPower Card Game – PowerSurge
    Invincibles" toyline.
-   1996: Reilly, as New Spider-Man with venom containment gear,
    featured as an action figure by ToyBiz.
-   1997: Reilly, as Spider-Carnage, featured as an action figure by
    ToyBiz in the Spider-Man/Venom – Along Came a Spider toyline.
-   2002: Reilly as Scarlet Spider was a KB Toys exclusive in the
    Spider-Man Classics toyline.
-   2004: The Spider-Man Classics range from ToyBiz featured a Ben
    Reilly Spider-Man figure, which is slightly over-sized compared to
    other figures in the range, is missing his wrist mounted
    web-shooters, and comes with a missile launching backpack.
-   2004: Reilly, as the New Spider-Man, featured as a Kubrick in a
    5-figure Spider-Man box set released by Medicom Toy.
-   2005: Reilly, as the Scarlet-Spider, featured as a Kubrick in
    Medicom Toy's  Super-Heroes Series 4 toyline.
-   2005: Spider-Ben and Spider-Carnage Minimates were available in
    Series 10.
-   2007: A Scarlet Spider Minimate was sold with Hobgoblin.
-   2008: Ben Reilly, in his redesigned Spider-Man costume, was featured
    as a figure in the Ares Build-A-Figure series of  Legends.
    Although he is in his Spider-Man costume, his figure is labeled as
    "Scarlet Spider" to differentiate him from Peter Parker
    versions. Additionally, just one of the pictures on the package
    is Ben Reilly, being one art from the cover of Spider-Girl #94,
    and another from The Amazing Spider-Man #509.
-   2009/2010: 's Super-Hero Squad range features both a Scarlet
    Spider figure (named "Ben Reilly Spider-Man" and packaged with
    Bullseye) and one of his re-designed Spider-Man costume (packaged
    both individually and with Carnage).

