CHANCE is the name of two unrelated fictional characters appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

The first Chance is a mercenary and enemy of Spider-Man who first
appeared in Web of Spider-Man #15 (June 1986).

The second Chance first appeared in Fallen Angels vol. 1 #1 (April
1987), and was created by Mary Jo Duffy and Kerry Gammill. The character
subsequently appears in Fallen Angels #2-8 (Mayâ€“November 1987).

Both characters received an entry in The Official Handbook of the
 Universe Update '89 #2.


Fictional character biography

Chance (Nicholas Powell)

Wealthy former professional gambler, NICHOLAS POWELL was looking for
more thrill in his life. He decides to become a mercenary
criminal-for-hire, incorporating his love of gambling into his work.
Anyone who hires him would, instead of directly paying, bet his fee
against him actually completing the mission. If Powell, calling himself
CHANCE, is successful, he receives his fee; if not, he lost the "bet"
and owes that amount to his contractors. The thrill of this risk was the
only way in which Chance felt the work was truly interesting.

Chance was first hired by the Foreigner to kill a fence named Andre
Boullion. Chance wagered his fee at double or nothing that he could kill
Spider-Man, but Spider-Man instead defeated him. Chance was then
hired by a corrupt city official, Robert Phalen, to kill a murder
witness. His initial attempt was thwarted by Daredevil, and his contract
was terminated when Phelan died. Chance was hired under pretense by
the Life Foundation to steal a secret arms shipment. The Life Foundation
captured him instead, and sought to duplicate his wrist blasters. Chance
joined forces with Spider-Man to overcome the Life Foundation. Chance
was next hired by Mister Grouper to kill casino owner Raymond Trask, but
was thwarted by Spider-Man. Raymond Trask then hired Chance under the
pretense of protecting Trask from an assassination attempt. Instead,
Trask unsuccessfully tried to kill him out of revenge.

During the "Spider-Island" storyline, Chance (alongside Scorcher and
White Rabbit) is seen guarding an abandoned lab at Empire State
University when Peter Parker and Carlie Cooper arrive. He ends up
knocked down by Peter Parker using the moves he learned from
Shang-Chi.

Chance (Fallen Angels)

Chance is a 13-year-old South Korean girl who immigrated to America,
then ran away from the church which was mistreating her. The mutant
criminal Vanisher recruits her as part of his group of Fallen Angels -
teenagers who worked for him as thieves. There, she befriended Ariel,
an extraterrestrial mutant.


Powers and abilities

The first Chance wears wrist-blasters which can fire laser beams,
concussive energy, and clear acid-filled darts. He also wears a set of
ankle jets which allow him to fly, and he wears a cybernetic helmet
which controls the wrist-blasters and ankle jets. The helmet also
contains scanning devices enabling him to see in all directions around
and above himself. The power pack on his back supplies power to his
weapons and paraphernalia.

The second Chance is a mutant with the superhuman ability to enhance or
dampen the mutant superhuman powers of others. Hence, she can cause
another mutant's superhuman power to increase or decrease in level or
even cause it to cease functioning altogether for as long as she
concentrates upon it.

