DIE-CUT (real name: CZORN YSON) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character appears
in comic books published by the  UK imprint. He first appeared in
Death's Head II & the Origin of Die-Cut #1 (1993). Die-Cut then
co-starred in another miniseries, Die-Cut vs G-Force, before receiving
his own Die-Cut limited series in November 1993.


Fictional character biography

Czorn Yson is a mutant from the planet Ganalon. The Ganalonians have
been engaged in a war with a race of cyborgs for centuries. Yson enlists
as a soldier in the battle against the cyborgs; it is from his
experiences that he gains a pathological hatred of all things
mechanical.

Yson is captured by the cyborg forces and tortured for information. He
successfully blocks their mental probes by feigning schizophrenia, but
eventually slips into true madness. When the Minion cyborg, the future
Death's Head II, arrives to assimilate his personality, Yson willingly
submits in order to end his torture.

Years later, Death's Head II is infected with a type of a computer virus
known as a purging program, which forces some of his assimilated
personalities to emerge. Czorn Yson is one of those personalities.
Death's Head II is eventually forced to allow Yson's personality to
temporarily take over, whereupon Yson manages to create a new, enhanced
body and download his personality into it. Now calling himself Die-Cut,
the insane mutant cuts Death's Head into two. He eventually regains his
sanity, and sets off on a quest to destroy all cyborgs.


Powers and abilities

Die-Cut has a blade, called the Pscythe, attached to his left arm. Drawn
from his memories when he created a new body, the Pscythe can cut
through virtually any matter or energy. It has the ability to open
portals through space and other dimensions. The Pscythe can also be used
to erase memories.


Notes

