ERIC O'GRADY is a fictional character in the . The fourth character to
use the ANT-MAN name, he was created by Robert Kirkman and Phil Hester,
and first appears in Irredeemable Ant-Man #1 (December 2006).


Publication history

Eric O'Grady was the main character in the ongoing monthly series The
Irredeemable Ant-Man, with the "Irredeemable" title given to the
comic's title to indicate the character's immoral attitude and behavior.
The series was canceled after issue #12, though no official cancellation
notice was given (as  simply opted to not solicit issues of
The Irredeemable Ant-Man beyond #12, though the final issue did
mercilessly mock the idea of cancellation, such as having Eric scream in
spite towards a massive assault of canceled comic characters).

Though canceled, the series ended with the character becoming enrolled
in the Initiative. With Avengers: The Initiative #8, O'Grady joined
the title's cast. He departed from the title after Avengers: The
Initiative #20, and as of Thunderbolts #128, is a member of the new
Thunderbolts team. After the events of Siege, he becomes a member of the
Secret Avengers, beginning with issue one. Beginning in November
2010, he starred alongside Henry Pym in the three-issue mini-series
Ant-Man and the Wasp, by Tim Seeley.

Ant-Man appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010â€“2013 Secret
Avengers series, from issue #1 (July 2010) through the character's
death in issue #23 (April 2012); the character was replaced by a Life
Model Decoy with all of his memories in the following issue, renaming
itself the Black Ant in issue #32, revealing itself as an antagonist in
issue #36, before disappearing in its final issue #37 (March 2013).


Fictional character biography

Eric O'Grady is a low-level agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. who stumbles upon Dr.
Henry "Hank" Pym's latest incarnation of the Ant-Man suit in the
S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters. A man of very few morals and willingness
to lie, cheat, steal and manipulate in order to get ahead in life,
O'Grady immediately steals the armor for his own selfish plans, which
include using his status as a "super-hero" to stalk women and facilitate
his thievery. A running theme with the character is his evil side
clashing with a desire to be accepted by others, which leads to Eric
vowing to renounce his evil ways and become a proper hero, leading to a
cycle of the character relapsing and vowing to "change".

The Irredeemable Ant-Man

Mitch Carson is a S.H.I.E.L.D. security agent under Dum Dum Dugan and
someone whom Eric O'Grady looks up to. Originally picked out to be the
stolen Ant-Man suit's wearer, Carson was forced to wear a hastily built
prototype suit based on the stolen armor. When S.H.I.E.L.D. discovered
that O'Grady had stolen the suit, Carson confronted Eric in the new
experimental suit. In the ensuing battle, Eric disfigured his friend's
face by accident with his suit's jets, burning the left half of Carson's
face and leaving Carson deaf and blind on that side as well. Despite
what he did, O'Grady took Mitch to the infirmary nearby to help the
injured Mitch, later vowing revenge.

As his series progressed, it is revealed that his best friend and fellow
S.H.I.E.L.D. surveillance agent Chris McCarthy was the first person who
actually wore what would become O'Grady's Ant-Man suit. McCarthy was
killed however, during a HYDRA attack after being shot in the head by a
HYDRA agent. Eric took the suit off of Chris's corpse just before the
Helicarrier crashed. With his best friend dead, Eric sets his sights
on seducing and bedding Chris's girlfriend Veronica King. The attraction
resulted in the two having sex, leading to Veronica's pregnancy and
Ant-Man ultimately abandoning Veronica.

Despite his attempts to seduce Veronica, Ant-Man continuously uses his
powers of shrinking to stalk women and watch them in various stages of
undress, with Ms.  of the Mighty Avengers being a popular target
for his ever-increasing voyeurism.

Eric also encounters and steals the thief Black Fox's possessions. Black
Fox later shows up looking for the jewels. O'Grady, however, had already
sold them to a pawn shop. The two work together, getting the $150,000
back and splitting the proceeds, with O'Grady keeping 15 percent.

After saving a child's life, Ant-Man encounters Damage Control.
This organization offers him a job and, after he obtains a fake ID under
the name DEREK SULLIVAN and comes up with the new superhero name SLAYING
MANTIS, he consents. He meets a woman Abigail and they start dating. He
leases an apartment under his new name, and with Damage Control's help,
begins to establish a new identity while continuing to hide from
S.H.I.E.L.D. However, as Abigail begins to fall in love with Eric, she
reveals to him that she is a single mother with a son. This in turn
triggers Eric dumping Abigail over keeping her son's existence a secret
from him while pursuing a romantic relationship with him.

During a later confrontation with Abigail, she reveals that she
possesses the power to read people's emotions telepathically. She
promptly then accuses Eric of truly loving her, through use of her
powers to scan Eric's mind for his true feelings about her. Before he
can answer though, the Hulk attacks Manhattan. Eric reluctantly joins
the fray by attacking Hulk from the inside of his body. However, Hulk's
stomach and innards proved to be just as tough and Eric ended up being
discharged through one of the nostrils. He awoke in a S.H.I.E.L.D.
infirmary, with Mitch Carson standing by his bed, stating that he was
under arrest.

Carson takes Eric to a secret room aboard the helicarrier, and proceeds
to torture him. While doing so, Carson reveals shocking secrets to Eric
regarding his own sociopathic nature and how he has abused his position
as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent to cover up murders he has committed over the
years. Just as Carson is on the verge of burning Eric's face with the
suit's jet boosters, Iron Man arrives and subdues him. Eric uses
Carson's confessions of past misdeeds to frame him for the whole
stolen-suit fiasco, saying that he was only trying to stop him from
using the suit for evil. Iron Man refuses to believe Eric, though Iron
Man is quickly sidetracked by the arrival of the Black Fox (now friends
with Eric after their first encounter). Black Fox demands that Eric be
released and claims to have placed explosives on the helicarrier in
order to extort his friend's freedom. Eric refuses Black Fox's claims to
protect him from Iron Man, leading to Black Fox being arrested.

Several weeks pass and while Carson's fate is left unresolved, it is
shown that Eric has resumed his post upon the helicarrier, having been
offered his own job under unknown circumstances. Feeling guilty for
Black Fox being in jail, Eric helps the elderly thief escape from the
helicarrier, with Eric admitting that he was sorry for putting Black Fox
through the ordeal of being arrested. Later on, Eric refuses Veronica's
attempt to work out an arrangement for raising their child together, in
part because of Eric's inner fear that he would be a horrible father due
to his utter lack of morals or ethics. Meanwhile, despite their
misgivings, Iron Man and Hank Pym reluctantly offer Eric his old Ant Man
suit back after determining that none of the other candidates can
control the suit to the degree that Eric has already demonstrated, on
the condition of him becoming part of the Initiative, which Eric
accepts.

Eric also has one last meeting with Abigail and tells her that he does,
indeed, love her. However, he tells Abigail that he will be leaving for
a while and wishes to be with her. While doing so, he hopes that he can
be a better person. Before leaving, he tells her his real name.

The Initiative

In spite of his vows to Abigail though, Eric O'Grady continues his lewd
and irredeemable ways upon joining the Initiative. He appears in Camp
Hammond, as an official recruit for the Initiative, along with Crusader,
Melee, Geldoff, Dragon Lord, Geiger, Red Nine, and Diamondback.

In particular, during his first meeting with Taskmaster, Eric attempts
to slander the Ant-Man name of his predecessor Scott Lang by passing off
stories of his lewd stalker behavior regarding Ms.  onto Scott, as
well as claiming that Lang was never really an official member of the
Avengers and that Lang was simply hiding inside the Avengers mansion
during his tenure with the team and following the group around as a
hanger-on. Unfortunately, Scott's daughter overhears Taskmaster and Eric
laughing at Eric's lies and attacks by growing to giant size and
attempts to step on the human-sized Eric. Using his suit to increase his
size to fight the giant-sized girl, Eric tricks Stature into thinking
the hero Stingray had been stepped on and killed in order to knock down
with a cheap shot, mocking yelling "Who's Your Daddy Now?". This in turn
causes Hank Pym to grow giant-sized and attack Eric. However, as their
fight begins to attract the attention of people outside the Initiative
compound, Taskmaster brings all three of the giants down with his
shield.

O'Grady is defeated by a clone of MVP, along with most of the recruits
in his class. He hid under an unconscious Geiger and survived mostly
unharmed. He hid from the rest of the action along with the
Taskmaster.

Eric is later seen having a counseling session with Trauma helping him
with a repressed "naked Santa" memory from his childhood.

When the Skrull invasion occurs in New York City, the Initiative are
ordered to fight. Eric decides to avoid this by shrinking down and
hiding. He soon discovers, however, that the Skrulls have taken over
Camp Hammond. He aids the Shadow Initiative in a failed attempt to
assassinate Queen Veranke. Escaping by once again shrinking down,
Eric discovers the Skrulls' last resort plan: to open a giant Negative
Zone portal, and have the entire United States removed from this
dimension. During this time, Eric muses that the Skrulls planned for
every possible complication that Earth's heroes might have created, but
did not plan on a "one-inch tall coward" running around underfoot.
Escaping the Skrulls on the back of one of their shock troopers, Eric
brings the information to some of the remaining Initiative members, and
they set out to stop the plan from happening.

Following the Skrulls' defeat, Eric is commended for his good work, and
is promoted to a position in the Thunderbolts.

Thunderbolts

In their first mission, Ant-Man and Black Widow (Yelena Belova) sneak
aboard, Ant-Man hidden in Black Widow's cleavage and take control of Air
Force One with Norman Osborn, Doc Samson and the new President aboard.
He secretly plants a gamma emitter on Doc Samson, causing the doctor to
increase in strength and anger, and attack the President.

However, O'Grady began to regret his actions in the Thunderbolts but
can't do anything since Osborn would have him killed. Paladin advised
that he wait until Osborn inevitably goes insane and is taken down.
Ant-Man later secretly witnesses Paladin, Ghost and Headsman turn
against Mister X and Scourge when they are ordered to execute Black
Widow (Natasha Romanoff) and Songbird, then erase their teammates'
memories. He later assists in the capture of Luke Cage by entering
Luke's nervous system. However, when his teammates make no effort to
extract him, O'Grady helps Cage to escape, later leaving his body while
he is eating.

O'Grady becomes increasingly disgruntled with the Thunderbolts, and
concerned for his future. In order to earn some goodwill, he helps
Captain America escape from custody, asking that he keep this in mind in
the future. Later, when sent with the rest of the team to infiltrate
Asgard and steal Gungnir, he once again faces off with Stature.

After Scourge finds Gungnir, he attempts to take it to the Iron Patriot,
but is stopped by Paladin finally having enough of serving a madman.
Grizzly attacks Paladin and attempts to kill for treason but O'Grady
shrinks down and enters Grizzly's ear canal, incapacitating Grizzly and
saving Paladin's life. As the Mighty Avengers defeat what remains of the
Thunderbolts, O'Grady finds Gungnir and gives it to Paladin deciding to
take it to a safe place where Iron Patriot cannot find it. After the
battle, O'Grady decides to re-evaluate the choices he has made and to do
something good with his life.

Secret Avengers

Eric O'Grady is later seen to be a member of the Secret Avengers, using
Hank Pym's classic gear. He was invited by Steve Rogers believing
that O'Grady can be a better person. He's positioned as the rookie
of the team teamed up with War Machine believing Eric's not worthy of
the Ant-Man name.

In the arc of the opening four issues, Eric inadvertently stumbled upon
a group of Shadow Council agents planning to blow up his team mates with
a bomb, but was able to defeat them by detonating it early.

Ant-Man and Wasp

The story opens to Eric O'Grady riding high off his position with the
Secret Avengers as a tool for sexual encounters with various women.
Black Fox comes to him with info regarding A.I.M. to hopefully boost
Eric's relationship with his own predecessor Hank Pym. When Abigail
comes by, Eric admits his longing for a relationship with the intention
of starting one, only for Abigail to find evidence of him being
unfaithful. She leaves commenting he's improving as a superhero but
sucks at being a person. O'Grady goes to Pym's lab, as Hank and Reed
Richards discuss how to save their reality from being overwritten. Eric
offers to help but is told to wait with his info. Eric waits and talks
with Tigra knowing about his power abuse to peep on women and warns him
not to test Tigra. Running into Striker, Finesse and Veil, Eric talks
the ladies into private drinking party, where he passes out and they put
shaving cream on his face before leaving him. After a bizarre break-in,
Eric is awaken to find Striker standing over him, who he blames for the
shaving cream and starts a fight with him. Tigra saves O'Grady from
Striker's powers, just as Pym then finally explains the situation
believing Eric brought in an alien who stole from Pym. It's revealed Fox
used Eric to create an entrance and exit for a thief to steal an object
from Hank's lab, Eric takes responsibility and teams up with Pym to
retrieve the stolen object.

Death and replacement

On a mission against Father (the creator of the World facility) with the
Secret Avengers, Eric is seemingly beaten to death by Father's henchmen
while defending a child's life. He later appears to be alive, but is
revealed to be a Life Model Decoy working for Father and helping him in
a yet unknown plan, with the new name of the Black Ant. Black Ant is
ultimately defeated alongside the other Descendents.


Powers and abilities

While wearing the Ant-Man armor, Eric O'Grady has the ability to shrink
to the size of an insect while retaining full-sized strength. He also
possesses two robotic arms he can release from the back of his armor
when he is shrunk. The armor's main mode of transportation is a jetpack
that can be detached and used as a weapon by turning the jet's flames
onto an enemy. He also has the ability to talk to insects while wearing
the suit. However, he has not quite trained in this ability and is
somewhat lacking in skill.

After joining The Initiative, it was revealed that O'Grady's armor was
the prototype G.I. Ant-Man suit that could also increase O'Grady's
size. During his appearances in Avengers: the Initiative, Eric's
helmet seemed to become more of a close-fitting piece of fabric, as it
moulded itself to his facial expressions, and could even be peeled
upwards to allow him to drink.

Following his induction into the Thunderbolts, Eric's suit is redesigned
and recolored, to better fit his new covert operations position.

When he joined the Secret Avengers, his costume was redesigned to
resemble the original Ant-Man armor. It was also fitted with
Wasp-like stingers in the gloves. The armour retains the 'cyberlegs'
of the original, not visible when retracted.


In other media

Television

-   Eric O'Grady makes a cameo appearance in The Avengers: Earth's
    Mightiest Heroes episode "Nightmare in Red", voiced by Troy Baker.

Miscellaneous

-   The Eric O'Grady version of Ant-Man appears in the Spider-Woman
    motion comics, voiced by Jeffrey Hedquist.


Reception

IGN listed Eric O'Grady as the 82nd greatest comic book hero of all time
stating that he is another hero who faces the challenge of living up to
a huge legacy but he is truly good at heart, and he's made great strides
when it comes to doing justice to the venerated Ant-Man name, and as
#43 on their list of the "Top 50 Avengers".

