Corporal EUGENE "FLASH" THOMPSON is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . He is a star high
school football player who mercilessly bullies classmate Peter Parker
but greatly admires Spider-Man, an irony in which the superhero takes
some gratification. After graduation, he joins the United States Army
and is haunted by his combat experiences, leading to alcoholism. After
losing both of his legs in the Iraq War, he was bound to the Venom
Symbiote as AGENT VENOM, a superhero and the first to control the
organism. In "the Ultimate Spiderman", he integrated new armor using
pieces of the Beetle's armor, taken in a fight, via the venom symbiote.

The character has appeared in several other media adaptations, usually
in his earlier bullying incarnation, portrayed by Joe Manganiello in the
2002 film Spider-Man, and by Chris Zylka in the 2012 film The Amazing
Spider-Man.


Publication history

Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko, Flash Thompson first
appeared in Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962), the same issue
Spider-Man first appeared in. He was a recurring character in The
Amazing Spider-Man series for several years.

The character made his first appearance as the new incarnation of Venom
in The Amazing Spider-Man #654 (February 2011). Then a second volume
of Venom was started in May 2011 with Flash Thompson as the titular
character. As Venom, he appeared as a regular character in the 2010-2013
Secret Avengers series, from issue #23 (April 2012) through its final
issue #37 (March 2013). As Venom, he appears in the new 2012
Thunderbolts series by Daniel Way and Steve Dillon.


Character biography

High School

In his early appearances, Eugene "Flash" Thompson was a high school
classmate of Peter Parker. In high school, Flash was a stereotypical
jock who continually bullied Peter. Flash was physically abused by his
alcoholic father Harrison Thompson, leading to Flash's own violent,
bullying nature. Thompson dubbed Peter with the derogatory nickname
"Puny Parker" and humiliated Parker daily in front of the whole school.
Ironically, Flash admired Spider-Man (Peter Parker) and formed the first
"Spider-Man Fan Club" and vocally supports his idol wherever he goes,
even criticizing J. Jonah Jameson and the Daily Bugle editorials to
his face. When Spider-Man was seen committing robberies, Flash was one
of the few to stand up for him claiming that he could still be innocent.
It soon turned out that Spider-Man had been framed by Mysterio and Flash
boasted about how he was always right. Peter, who openly stated that he
would not "trust [Spider-Man] any further than I can throw him", took
some secret pleasure in that Flash supported his alter-ego.

In a very early issue, Flash and Peter squared off for a boxing match in
the school gym. Initially expecting an easy victory, Flash was
astonished to discover that he simply couldn't lay a hand on Peter (due
to his opponent's enhanced speed and reflexes), and a single tap from
Parker's fist knocked him clear out of the ring. After this episode,
Flash's bullying was restricted mostly to verbal harassment. Over the
next few years, as the two became rivals for Liz Allan's affections,
Flash was only willing to confront Peter when he (Flash) was surrounded
by his friends. Peter, began to laugh off his threats with good-natured
comebacks (much to Flash's annoyance as well as bewilderment). This
subtle reversal of their positions was typical of Lee-Ditko character
developments in the title.

Towards the end of Ditko's run on the title, Flash was employed mainly
as comic relief, more a local buffoon than a serious threat. Major
changes in his personality took place subsequently to issue 39, when
John Romita, Sr. took over as artist for The Amazing Spider-Man.
Following Romita's take in place, Flash was made into a more sympathetic
character and his clean-cut image was similarly emphasized to give him
an "All-American" persona.

College and adulthood

After Flash Thompson entered Empire State University, his relationship
with Peter Parker became progressively less hostile. While the two
still traded the occasional insult, Flash had grown to respect Peter's
intelligence and was surprised by his popularity with the girls,
particularly Gwen Stacy and Mary Jane Watson. Both Flash and Peter were
friends with Harry Osborn. Harry's presence served to defuse the tension
between the former rivals.

While in university, Flash joined the United States Army and serves in
the Vietnam War (although this was later retconned to unspecified
overseas conflict due to 's sliding time scale). Unlike many
students of the time, Flash was never conscriptedâ€”instead, volunteers
for service of his own free will. Although Flash was absent from the
strip for months at a time, his frequent stateside visits kept him
familiar with the readers. He returned from the war a decorated hero.
Flash's tour of duty profoundly changed him from a reckless and immature
youth to a tormented and conflicted man. Finding no comfort in his
military decorations, Flash turned to alcohol for years.

While in Vietnam, Flash's unit bombed an ancient temple whose acolytes
had earlier sheltered Flash when he was wounded. Flash tried and failed
to stop them. When he returned to America, he dropped his antagonism
toward Peter. Peter, in turn, began to respect Flash's new found
maturity and the two become close. However, Flash soon finds himself
tailed by mysterious assassins, former acolytes of the temple who
thought that Flash had betrayed them. Spider-Man held off the assassins
long enough for Flash to explain his side of the story. Sha Shan, the
leader of the assassins, forgave Flash and even dated him for a while,
but left him when she found out he was cheating on her. When Sha Shan
was attacked by the Hobgoblin, Flash made the mistake of insulting the
villain on television. Hobgoblin took revenge by abducting Flash and
framing him as Hobgoblin's true identity. Spider-Man was aghast that his
old friend was a villain, but Flash was legally exonerated when
Hobgoblin's true identity was revealed.

After a bout of severe depression, Flash went drunk-driving and was
badly injured in a car crash. Soon afterward Norman Osborn offered him a
job at Oscorp as his personal aide in order to annoy Peter. Not knowing
the reasons behind this, Flash became loyal to Norman for giving him a
second chance and turning his life around. During this time, Flash met
the hero Prodigy, not realizing he was also Spider-Man in disguise.
Later, as part of a plan of driving Spider-Man to murderous violence by
attacking his family and friends, Osborn kidnapped Flash (under the
pretense of picking him up from an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting),
force-feeds him whiskey and has him crash a truck into Midtown High
School, where Peter works. Flash survived, thanks to his excellent
physical condition, but he suffered severe brain damage that left him in
a coma. Liz Allan Osborn, although widowed and raising her son Normie
all on her own, became Flash's caretaker, and hired a full-time nurse to
care for him. Peter, blaming himself for what happened to Flash, makes a
point of visiting his friend as often as he can.

Flash awakens from his coma during the "The Other" story arc. Flash
takes a job as the physical education teacher at Midtown High School,
where Peter teaches science. However, Flash suffers from severe memory
gaps and again treats Peter like a nerd and picks on him, as he did in
their high school days. Flash also flirts with Miss Arrow, unaware that
she is a villain there to attack Peter. When Peter unmasks himself as
Spider-Man, Flash dismisses it as a trick. Flash eventually believes
Peter is Spider-Man after witnessing him fight with Daniel Berkhart and
Francis Klum. Flash briefly appeared at the beginning of the "Brand New
Day" story arc, attending a welcome home party for Harry Osborn. Flash
and the rest of the world's population no longer remembers that Peter is
Spider-Man, due to the machinations of the demon Mephisto.

Iraq War

After the events of "One More Day", Flash Thompson willingly leaves his
place as a P.E. instructor to rejoin the Army and fight in the Iraq War
out of patriotic zeal, inspired by the selfless life of his lifelong
idol Spider-Man. He is still in a close friendship with Peter Parker, as
he is seen, lying in his hospital camp bed, with a greeting card by his
best friend, and an iPod loaded by Peter himself with "Christmas in
Fallujah".

Flash's platoon is ambushed, and Flash suffers several bullet wounds in
both legs but continues on in an attempt to save his superior officer
from danger. He willingly endangers himself, reasoning that Spider-Man
had often committed the same sacrifices for everyone else, and glad to
have had the opportunity to imitate him. His actions further damage his
legs. This results in the need for them to be amputated below the knees.
Flash's sacrifice is enough to earn him a recommendation for the Medal
of Honor. He returns to New York, only to shock Peter with the loss
of his legs. He reveals to Peter that Spider-Man was his inspiration in
Iraq. Harry rents a condo just for Flash, in order to help him out.
He later competes in a paraplegic sporting event at the local YMCA,
managing to come in first place.

Flash later accepts an offer to join Mayor Jameson's office of veteran's
affairs. He attends the wedding of May Parker. When the Chameleon
(disguised as Peter) meets Flash at the subsequent press conference, he
cruelly mocks him, calling him "puny Flash". Flash is seen going
through the so-called "stages of grief" backwards, even so far as to use
dangerous experimental procedures to regain his legs, but seems to come
to terms with his condition, thanks to the support of his friends,
family, and his new rehabilitation trainer Sha-Shan.

Agent Venom

[Flash Thompson as Agent Venom on the cover of Secret Avengers #23
(April 2012). Art by Arthur Adams.] In a January 2011 interview with
Newsarama, Flash Thompson was revealed "by accident" as the new host of
Venom.  confirmed Flash will have his own comic using a
military style version of Venom. Despite previously seeming to come to
terms with the loss of his legs, Flash jumps at the dangerous offer of
being bonded to the Venom symbiote, as the alien will be able to replace
his legs with its own bio-mass, allowing him to walk again. He will star
as a hero working for the military, and he will encounter many heroes
and villains of the  Universe. He made his premiere as Agent
Venom in The Amazing Spider-Man #654 (February 2011), and continues in
his own Agent Venom ongoing series following the special The Amazing
Spider-Man #654.1 issue.

He cannot stay bonded to the Venom symbiote for more than 48 hours at a
time, or the symbiote may gain complete control of him. The consequences
of this are first seen when the suit causes Flash to go berserk and
brutally slaughter a group of enemy operatives during his second
mission, and again during a brawl with the Jack O'Lantern ending with
the suit putting a grenade in Jack O'Lantern's mouth. While on a
mission in the Savage Land, Flash finds himself being hunted by Kraven
the Hunter who mistakes him for Spider-Man.

During Spider-Island, Agent Venom is sent in to capture a spider-like
beast that is fighting Firestar and Gravity. Agent Venom manages to
capture the Spider-King and discovers that he is an enslaved Captain
America. Venom disguises himself as the Spider-King in order to track
the infestation to its source. The Queen and Jackal send him to kill
Anti-Venom because he is curing people who have gained spider-powers,
but his superiors order him to take him to Mr. Fantastic to help develop
a cure. Flash and the Venom-symbiote fight each other because Flash
wants to bring Anti-Venom to Mr. Fantastic and the symbiote wants to
kill Anti-Venom for previously rejecting it. This leads to Venom and
Anti-Venom fighting. Venom wins the fight and delivers Anti-Venom to Mr.
Fantastic. Venom teams up with Red Hulk, X-23, Ghost Rider, and
Johnny Blaze to fight Blackheart.

He joins the Secret Avengers as Agent Venom. As an Avenger, Flash
apprehends the Human Fly, but the Human Fly escapes via a prisoner
transport to The Raft when the new Hobgoblin attacks the transport
trying to kill the Human Fly for stealing money from the Kingpin.
Flash tries to assassinate the third Crime Master for threatening his
family, but Eddie Brock attacks him as he is about to fire. This causes
the Crime Master to have his new Savage Six attack Flash and Betty
Brant. While trying to protect Betty from Jack O'Lantern he reveals
his identity to her. Thunderbolt Ross recruits Venom to be part of
his Thunderbolts team.

Flash relocates to Philadelphia after fighting the U-Foes there.
While trying to capture a serial killer infected with some of the alien
technology the U-Foes were trying to sell, so Beast could try to cure
the man, he is attacked by Toxin.

Flash returns to New York when Betty Brant contacts him with information
that the Crime Master has resurfaced. Flash infiltrates and attacks
Crime Master and his men until the Superior Spider-Man (Otto Octavius's
mind in Spider-Man's body) and his Spiderlings intervene. Crime Master
then reveals himself to be a small-time hood who had purchased the name
and mask from Hobgoblin and turns himself in. Superior Spider-Man then
turns his attention to Agent Venom with the intent on destroying
him. Flash escapes in a puff of smoke and hides in a hospital before
going to Peter's apartment. Seizing opportunity, "Peter Parker" invites
Flash to his company to give Flash prosthetic legs. After doing so,
Superior Spider-Man detains the symbiote in a cage from which it soon
breaks free and bonds to Superior Spider-Man, becoming the Superior
Venom. The symbiote tries to flee back to Flash, but Superior
Spider-Man keeps it for himself, even going as far as to injure Cardiac
when Cardiac tries to separate them. Iron Man arrives to Parker
Industries to assist both Cardiac and Flash in order to take him to the
battle-zone and reunite him with the symbiote. The Avengers are starting
to fall against the power of Superior Venom who boasts about his
superiority until Iron Man arrives to distract him allowing Flash
(wearing Iron Man's armor) attack from behind and attempt to retake the
symbiote. With the unexpected assistance from Spider-Man's conscience,
the Venom symbiote finally leaves Superior Spider-Man's body and
reunites with Flash, bonding together again. The Avengers are still in
disbelief about Superior Spider-Man's argument until they ask Flash to
check his mind-link with the symbiote to see anything wrong about
Superior Spider-Man's motives. Flash replies that he sees "two different
radio stations playing in the same frequency".

Following the conclusion of The Superior Spider-Man and the return of
Peter Parker as Spider-Man, he learns that his friend Flash is Venom and
became angry at the Avengers that they did not tell him. The Avengers
confess that because Flash was a good soldier and the secret identities
in the Avengers' rules goes both ways.

Seeking to maintain a connection with the Guardians of the Galaxy, the
Avengers placed Venom on said team as their new envoy. At a point
the Symbiote began to act strangely considering anyone as an enemy as
something was tapping into its mind signalling it. Flash became
extremely worried and, since he was left behind when the other Guardians
were captured, he began to try and find a way back to Earth which the
Symbiote encouraged. However, in its fear it killed people if they
refused. Eventually Gamora found them but they attacked her thinking her
as an enemy. Star-Lord manages to subdue the Symbiote but Flash goes
into a coma. The Symbiote breaks out on the ship and takes the ship
to its planet of origin. The planet of Symbiotes explains to the
Guardians their origins of the Klyntar. However, Flash and the Venom
Symbiote have created the perfect savior the Symbiotes want. This heals
the Symbiote and allows Flash to tap into the full potential of the
Symbiote.


Relationships

Thompson has had many romantic relationships. Some of his love interests
have also dated Peter Parker:

-   When Flash is first introduced, he is going off on a date with a
    girl named Sally. She is later revealed to be Sally Avril in
    Untold Tales of Spider-Man. In that series her relationship with
    Flash is portrayed as less flirty and more friendly.
-   In high school he dates Liz Allan. As time passed Liz grew more
    interested in Peter but continued to date Flash. After graduation
    Liz dumped Flash. Liz went on to marry Flash's former roommate
    Harry Osborn.
-   Flash briefly dated Gwen Stacy before he went on his first tour
    of duty.
-   Flash is briefly romantically involved with Mary Jane Watson
    in college. After he and Peter put their antagonism behind them and
    become friends, Flash serves as best man at Peter and Mary Jane's
    wedding.
-   Flash had a long relationship with Sha Shan, a girl he met
    in Vietnam. They lived together for some time, but their
    relationship became distrustful and strained. Flash eventually
    cheated on her with Betty Brant. When Sha Shan learned the truth,
    Flash hit her and she left him. Years later she showed up as his
    physical therapist.
-   He has a long, on-and-off relationship with Betty Brant. Ever since
    the 1980s, they have broken up and gotten together four times.
-   Felicia Hardy dates him in order to make Peter jealous, but is
    surprised when she actually falls in love with him. She eventually
    proposed marriage to him but Flash breaks up with her, as he feels
    he cannot keep up with her high-speed lifestyle.
-   He has started a relationship with fellow Secret Avenger
    Valkyrie.


Powers and abilities

The Venom symbiote grows a pair of legs for him while he has on the
suit. Due to his military training and former boxing career, Flash
is an experienced hand-to-hand fighter and a trained marksman.


Other versions

House of M

In the House of M: Iron Man series, Flash is a commentator for 'Sapien
Deathmatch'. This is where sentient beings fight violent battles for the
entertainment of the mutant ruling class. In his first noted
performance, Flash narrates a battle between a robotic Sentinel and the
human Tony Stark.

MC2

In the MC2 continuity (the alternate future of Spider-Girl), Flash
Thompson is now on the faculty of his old high school. He is the coach
of the girls' basketball team. He married Felicia Hardy, but they later
divorced after they had two children (Felicity and Eugene Jr.). He
still is unaware of the fact that Peter Parker was Spider-Man, and is
similarly unaware that Peter's daughter is Spider-Girl. Felicity, on the
other hand, is aware of all of this and briefly assumed the Scarlet
Spider identity in attempt to partner with Spider-Girl.

Spider-Man Loves Mary Jane

In Spider-Man Loves Mary Jane, Flash is the star football quarterback
at Midtown High. Flash bullies Peter and refers to him as Puny Parker.
Flash recently started dating Liz Allan again; this ended after she
dumped him at homecoming for declaring his love to Mary Jane in front of
the whole school.

Spider-Verse

-   Flash's version is named Gene and is in a relationship with Sarah
    Jane (the universe's Mary Jane's). Like his counterpart, he bullies
    Patton Parnell (the Peter Parker of the Universe).
-   Earth-11 version Flash Thompson is far more friendly to Penelope
    Parker (Earth-11's Peter Parker), even before the spider bites her
    or after she became Spider-Girl unlike most of his other
    counterparts (notably Mainstream, Ultimate, Indian, and mostly TV
    series/Movie trilogy universes) who start as bullies at first
    towards Peter Parker and his counterparts, then reform of being
    admired by the Spiders' heroism afterwards.
-   A version Captain Spider appears in the spider-themed heroes
    recruited by Spider-UK to help combat the Inheritors. He is
    killed by Morlun.

Spider-Island

Flash (as Agent Venom) is the main protagonist in this Secret Wars
Warzone version of Spider Island. He leads the resistance after most
of the heroes and citizens have been mutated into spider monsters by the
Spider Queen. Inspired by the sacrifice of Spider-Man, he leads the
resistance (consisting of Werewolf by Night, Jessica Drew, and Vision)
into stopping the Queen. His plans to release some heroes from the
Spider Queen's control by mutating them into other monsters (such as
Curt Connors' Lizard formula and Morbius' vampire formula) succeed and
he is able to get monstrous versions of Captain America, Captain ,
the Hulk, and Iron Man on his side. When they go get Stegron to help in
the cause, they discover Spider-Man's alive and Flash finds out he's
Peter Parker. They rescue both to help in their cause. Flash eventually
leads the rebellion to successfully stop the Spider Queen, but at the
cost of his own life (due to requiring the symbiote to possess the
Spider Queen to take her down). Peter becomes the new baron of the place
and plans to honor Flash's memory.

Ultimate 

[Ultimate Flash Thompson.] The Ultimate  incarnation of the
character is FREDRICK "FRED" THOMPSON, a high school jock who
bullies Peter Parker and hangs out with fellow student Kenny "Kong"
McFarlane. Unlike most versions, he does not idolize Spider-Man
(something that Kenny does instead). When Flash challenges Peter to a
fight, Peter merely blocks a punch from Flash and manages to break his
hand. When Peter joins the basketball team, Flash's attitude changes as
he's loyal to his teammates. When Flash suddenly wants to talk to Peter
alone for a moment on at least two occasions, Peter turns him down
rather furiously, believing he just wanted to bully in private. After
Gwen Stacy's death, It was revealed that he had a crush on Gwen and was
actually trying to ask Peter for help in approaching Gwen for a date.
During Silver Sable's hunt of Spider-Man, Flash is kidnapped after being
mistaken by the Wild Pack for Spider-Man having only moments before
disappeared into an alley Flash happened to be standing in. After
realizing their mistake, the group considered killing him but Flash is
able to escape. This experience gives Flash a new level of popularity
within the school especially after a TV movie is made about his ordeal.
After Peter's apparent death as Spider-Man, Flash realizes that he's the
only one didn't know that his former bullying victim and the young hero
are the same person.

What If?_

-   In "What If the Radioactive Spider Had Bitten Someone Else?", Flash
    is one of three characters - along with Betty Leeds and John
    Jameson - who is bitten by the radioactive spider which gave
    Spider-Man his powers, instead of Peter. After inadvertently killing
    the wrestler Crusher Hogan in the ring due to his underestimating
    his new strength, Flash begins to fight crime under the name
    "Captain Spider", but his career comes to a brutal stop when he
    fights the Vulture, is knocked out of the sky and - without any
    webshooters to save him - falls to his death. Only Peter bears
    witness to his demise.
-   In "What If Peter Parker had to destroy Spider-Man?" a darker twist
    to the "Captain Spider" story is depicted, with Flash still
    possessing his aggressive, selfish bully attitude from his
    early appearances. As Peter witnessed the spider-bite, he becomes
    Flash's confidant, and Flash strong-arms him into making a costume
    and weapons. Not wanting Flash to harm anyone permanently, Peter
    devises the web-shooters, but Flash uses his powers to become a
    super-criminal called "The Spider". A pep talk from Aunt May and
    Uncle Ben inspires Peter to do something, using his scientific
    genius to create a robotic exo-skeleton (similar to Doctor
    Octopus' tentacles) and other methods which let him counter Flash's
    powers and incapacitate him. Later, Mr. Fantastic removes Flash's
    powers and remarks that Peter has a bright future ahead of him.
-   In "What if J. Jonah Jameson adopted Spider-Man?", JJJ adopts Peter
    after Chameleon's attempt to hijack a NASA shuttle resulted in the
    deaths of Aunt May, John Jameson, and Chameleon himself. Jameson
    hires Flash to be Peter's bodyguard, writing off their antagonism as
    youthful energy. Because Jameson remains convinced that Spider-Man
    is to blame for the shuttle accident, he hires Spencer Smythe to
    create the Spider-Slayers, only for Peter to sabotage them
    in secret. At the demonstration, Flash notices that Smythe has also
    created the Scorpion suit and takes it for himself, hoping to
    protect Spidey and possibly become a hero in his own right. However,
    the serum affects Flash's mind, causing him to go berserk, and Peter
    (now maskless) goes to try to bring him down. Blinded by rage and
    addled by the serum, Flash refuses to believe that "Puny Parker"
    could be Spider-Man and attacks, nearly killing Peter until Jameson
    intervenes using a remote-controlled Spider-Slayer robot and shoots
    Flash with an antidote dart.


In other media

Television

Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends

The television show Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends was Flash
Thompson's first animated appearance, voiced by Frank Welker. In the
episode "Video-Man", he finds out that Angelica Jones is actually
Firestar but he is unable to remember that in the end. In the episode
"Spider-Man Unmasked", Sandman learns Spider-Man's true identity to
which Firestar tricks Flash into wearing a Spider-Man costume to a party
which successfully mislead Sandman into thinking it's made a mistake. In
the end, Flash tries to take some credit in Sandman's defeat but Peter
Parker throws him some sand, scaring him.

Spider-Man: The Animated Series

Flash Thompson appeared in the 1994 Spider-Man: The Animated Series,
voiced by Patrick Labyorteaux. This version tries to have a relationship
with Felicia Hardy, which did not work out and he later found a new,
more comfortable, relationship with the brainy Debra Whitman. Flash does
not physically bully Peter Parker but insults him on various occasions.
He is also a fan of Spider-Man as he did not believe J. Jonah Jameson's
news when the Insidious Six were on the rampage when the web slinger was
framed by the Chameleon. Although Peter and Flash continue their
rivalry, he is invited to Peter's wedding where he meets Felicia again.
Flash tries to get along with other beautiful girls but always fails,
sometimes being pushed back by Debra.

Spider-Man: The New Animated Series

Flash Thompson appeared in the Spider-Man: The New Animated Series
episode "Flash Memory", voiced by Devon Sawa. This incarnation's dislike
for Peter Paker that is actually pushed to a new extreme: Flash insults
up front and is shown to be even willing to endanger Peter's life.

The Spectacular Spider-Man

Flash Thompson appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man, voiced by Joshua
LeBar. Just like the original comics, this version is a star high school
football player and a typical jock and bully who mercilessly bullies his
nerdy classmate Peter Parker but greatly admires the costumed superhero
Spider-Man, an irony in which the superhero takes some gratification. He
continues to bully Peter, even after his nerdy classmate has already
been bitten by the radioactive spider and Flash is always trying to
outsmart Parker but usually fails. In the series, he is very similar to
his original portrayal in the comics, dating Liz Allan until they break
up, seemingly due to Liz developing a crush on Peter and also great
admirer of the hero Spider-Man. Due to losing a bet to Peter, he had to
be a cheerleader for Halloween but convinced the rest of the football
team into also dressing as cheerleaders. He and Mary Jane Watson had
also been voted the king and queen of the Fall Formal, which leads him
to try asking out Mary Jane but Mary Jane denied him due to not wanting
an actual relationship. After seeing Peter dressed as the web-slinger
(which Peter claims was a Halloween costume to protect his identity), he
argued that Peter looked nothing like his idol and he himself should
have dressed up like the wall-crawler. When Peter gets angrier and
easily agitated from the Symbiote, it's Flash that snaps Peter back into
reality by reminding Peter that his friends only want to help. Flash
later shows his more heroic side when he and his friends help save Gwen
Stacy from falling to death at the Thanksgiving Day Parade because of
Venom. In the second season, Flash is shown to have an attraction to Sha
Shan Nguyen. It is also revealed that he and Peter were best friends in
Nursery School: It was Peter that gave Flash his trademark nickname
because of his tendency to streak as a little boy. Although Sha Shan
does not want anything to do with him at first, Sha Shan eventually went
out with Flash after he reported Harry Osborn's Gobulin Green usage on
the team, feeling that it's better that he earn trophies fair and
square. Flash also auditioned for St. John Devereaux's school play.
Although he botched his initially audition, Flash dressing as Spider-Man
ultimately got him the role as the play's comic relief.

Ultimate Spider-Man

Flash Thompson appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man cartoon series,
voiced by Matt Lanter (for regular appearances) and by Logan Miller (in
"Beetle Mania"). This version, much like all of his previous television
incarnations, is a typical bully who picks on Peter Parker yet idolizes
Spider-Man. However, lacks the previous incarnations' redeeming quality
and hot-headed bravour and is instead portrayed as a coward who
deliberately leaves people behind. His favorite school sport is
'locker-knocker time' where he locks Peter in his own locker. He also
seems to harass Harry Osborn and Mary Jane Watson as well. Throughout
the first season, he is sometimes an accidental target for super-powered
characters that Spider-Man encounters (possibly due to karma):
Spider-Man has Flash lock himself in his own locker during the Frightful
Four's attack on Midtown High School in "Great Power", briefly was a
host for the Venom symbiote created for Norman Osborn in "Venom",
Taskmaster actually thought that Flash and Harry could be Spider-Man in
"Why I Hate the Gym", gets his first comeuppance when Wolverine
(transplanted into Peter's body by Mesmero) gives him a sound pounding
after trying to bully once more in "Freaky", and hides in Phil Coulson's
principle office during Thor's and the Executioner's hunt in "Run Pig
Run". In the episode "I Am Spider-Man", Flash is given moral support as
Spider-Man by Peter during Mary Jane's school play. Despite their enmity
and the Trapster mistaking Flash for the web-slinger, Flash shows signs
of reforming his character. In the second season, Flash's positive
development continues. In the episode "The Rhino", his bullying
motivated Alex O'Hirn's transformation into the Rhino to seek revenge on
Flash but is saved by Spider-Man and Power Man. Realizing that his
bullying towards others has consequences, Flash apologizes before Alex
is taken into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.

Agent Venom makes his animated debut on Ultimate Spider-Man:
Web-Warriors. Wanting to emulate his idol Spider-Man, Agent Venom
has all of Venom's abilities (sans Venom's host control, as Flash's own
will overrides the symbiote's) and is even able to assimilate technology
into himself but earlier tries to fight crime as the "SCARLET SPIDER"
albeit without powers. During Spider-Man's hunt for the mass-produced
Venom symbiote created for Loki, Flash, as "Scarlet Spider" tries to
assists Spidey against the Scorpion (manipulated by Venom). After
Venom's defeat and destruction by S.H.I.E.L.D., another piece of the
organism latches itself onto "Scarlet Spider's" foot. The next day when
the Beetle attacks Midtown High to retrieve the symbiote, following
Flash donning his football gear for impact protection, the organism
covers its new host, pads and all. During his first battle and while
also learning of his new powers, Agent Venom assimilates the Beetle's
technology (missile launchers and parts of armour) to evolve his own
suit atop his football gear. Agent Venom battles the Beetle while
Spider-Man fights Taskmaster. When the Beetle uses a sonic disruptor,
Agent Venom almost loses his mind to Venom, but manages to resist
Venom's control much to Spidey's surprise. He defeats the Beetle while
Taskmaster retreats. Realizing the consequences of being a hero, he
attempts to remove the symbiote with vocal commands (i.e. 'Venom away')
but fails and Spider-Man realizes that the parasite is stuck. Despite
Dr. Curt Connors's efforts, Venom has chosen its permanent host.
Although he is then locked up by S.H.I.E.L.D., Spider-Man persuades Nick
Fury into releasing him. Agent Venom later is seen as a member of the
New Warriors alongside Iron Spider (Amadeus Cho), Squirrel Girl, Ka-Zar,
Zabu and Cloak and Dagger. Agent Venom (and his teammates) assists
Spider-Man in fighting a super-powered team and a group of escaped
supervillains (respectively led by Taskmaster and the Green Goblin). He
also assist Spider-Man, Iron Spider, Power Man and their S.H.I.E.L.D.
teacher Whizzer in combating Arnim Zola's monsters. Agent Venom soon
plays the role of the Rhino's release to join the New Warriors. However,
Alex still thinks Flash is still the same bully before. With the Hulk's
help, Agent Venom and Spider-Man are able to reform the Rhino into
joining the New Warriors. Near the end of season three's finale
four-parter, he, along with Amadeus Cho, learn that Peter is Spider-Man.
During season four in the episode Double Agent Venom, Doc Ock removes
the symbiote from Flash, only to get it back later on. Upon merging with
it again, Agent Venom is slightly redesigned to look like the Superior
Venom.

Film

-   Flash Thompson appeared in the 2002 film Spider-Man, played by Joe
    Manganiello. This version is depicted as Mary Jane Watson's
    boyfriend at the start of the film and is a bully who torments
    Peter Parker. After Peter accidentally uses a web to splash Flash
    with a tray of food, a fight between them breaks out in the school's
    hallway which Peter wins albeit accidentally by discovering his new
    powers and sending Flash down with just one punch. Mary Jane later
    tells Peter that Flash was grateful that Peter didn't give him a
    black eye for graduation. At graduation, he and Mary Jane break up.
-   Manganiello reprises his role in a silent cameo at the end of the
    2007 film Spider-Man 3 where he attends Harry Osborn's funeral and
    is visibly saddened by his former classmate's death.
-   Chris Zylka portrays Flash Thompson in the 2012 reboot film The
    Amazing Spider-Man. This version is a basketball player rather
    than a football player and still picks on Peter Parker, even beating
    Peter up at lunch in front of everyone. However, once Peter receives
    the spider powers, Flash gets humiliated during a basketball
    practice session as retribution. Flash later starts acting nicer to
    Peter, starting by sympathizing with Parker after Ben
    Parker's death. By the end of the film, Flash is implied to now be
    Peter's friend and expresses admiration for Spider-Man.
-   Chris Zylka reprises his role in the 2014 sequel The Amazing
    Spider-Man 2. Initially cut from the final film, one of the deleted
    scenes titled "Flash Forward" in the Blu-ray bonus features shows
    that he and Peter Parker are friends.
-   Chris Zylka has also expressed interest in having his character as
    Venom in the spin-off film Venom.

Video games

-   Agent Venom appears as a playable character in the Facebook game
    : Avengers Alliance.
-   Agent Venom is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Agent Venom is a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.
-   Agent Venom appears as an ambush enemy in : Contest of
    Champions

Stage

-   Flash Thompson was originally portrayed by Matt Caplan in the 2010
    Broadway production Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.


Collected editions

  Title                                 Material collected                                                                                                Release date     ISBN
  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------
  Venom by Rick Remender vol. 1         Venom vol. 2 #1-5                                                                                               October 2011     
  Spider-Island                         Venom vol. 2 #6-9, along with other material                                                                    January 2012     
  Venom: Circle of Four                 Venom vol. 2 #10-14, 13.1-13.4                                                                                  June 2012        
  Venom: The Savage Six                 Venom vol. 2 #15-22                                                                                             October 2012     
  Venom: Devil's Pack                   Venom vol. 2 #23-25, 28-30                                                                                      April 2013       
  Minimum Carnage                       Minimum Carnage: Alpha; Venom vol. 2 #26-27; Scarlet Spider vol. 2 #10-11, 12.1; Minimum Carnage: Omega   January 2013     
  |Venom: Toxin With a Vengeance!       Venom vol. 2 #31-35                                                                                             September 2013   
  Venom: The Land Where Killers Dwell   Venom vol. 2 #36-42, 27.1                                                                                       January 2014     

