GOBLINS are goblin-themed fictional characters appearing in American
comic books published by . They are usually depicted as
supervillains and enemies of Spider-Man. They all started with the
popularity of the Green Goblin (Norman Osborn), Spider-Man's most
dangerous foe. They are usually people in a goblin costume terrorizing
New York City with pumpkin bombs and a glider or have been transformed
by using the formula developed by Osborn and his former professor and
business partner, Mendel Stromm.


Goblins

Proto-Goblin

In a retcon, it was revealed that after Norman had Stromm arrested for
embezzlement, he had found only a portion of the notes detailing his
partner's serum. Norman tests the incomplete version of the serum on
Oscorp employee NELS VAN ADDER, driving Van Adder insane and causing him
to transform into a red, demon-like being known as the "PROTO-GOBLIN".
Killing several people and blaming Norman for his condition, Adder
harasses and later attempts to kill him before being knocked out an
Oscorp window by Detectives Arthur and George Stacy. In order to escape
conviction for what he had done to Van Adder, Norman convinces the
police that Van Adder had been experimenting on himself, and that he had
been trying to help him. Van Adder was last seen fleeing into the
wilderness, and his current fate is unknown. As well as endowing
Adder with super strength and agility, the prototypical Goblin Serum
gave him claws, talons, fangs, glowing green eyes, and near impenetrable
red skin (capable of withstanding several close range bullet shots).

In The Amazing Spider-Man, Van Atter was originally reported as the
character that Irrfan Khan would play until he was revealed to be Dr.
Ratha.

The Proto-Goblin appears as a boss in Spider-Man: Battle for New York.

Green Goblin

Hobgoblin

Demogoblin

Grey Goblin

The Grey Goblin is the alias of two fictional characters that appears in
comic books published by  that are enemies of Spider-Man.
The overall persona's concept resembles the Green Goblin.

GABRIEL STACY, the twin brother of Sarah Stacy and son of Norman Osborn
and Gwen Stacy, appeared as the first Grey Goblin in The Amazing
Spider-Man. He also appeared in The Spectacular Spider-Man and
Amazing Spider-Man presents: American Son.

LILY HOLLISTER, Harry Osborn's ex-fianc√©, first appeared in The Amazing
Spider-Man #545 and had her first appearance as Menace (also known as
the second Grey Goblin) is in The Amazing Spider-Man #549.

Goblin King

Monster


Characters exposed to the goblin formula

Mendel Stromm

The creator of the Goblin Formula, Stromm subjected himself to the
earliest known version of it. While Stromm's concoction failed to imbue
him with overt superhuman abilities, it did cause him to enter a
recuperative state of suspended animation after his apparent death at
the hands of Norman Osborn, who later revived Stromm as Gaunt.

Lefty Donovan

Lefty was used as a test subject to Roderick Kingsley as the Hobgoblin
to test out the goblin formula. Kingsley later killed him after figuring
out the formula.

Sundown

An Oscorp employee named DOCTOR DAVID PATRICK LOWELL worked in the
Osborn Chemical Company division, where his main project was a "super
fertilizer" that could increase the solar absorption and growth rate of
flora. After being passed over for a promotion, an irritated Lowell
showed Osborn his work, and Osborn, noticing Lowell's chemical was
uncannily similar to the Goblin Formula, immediately fired him and
ordered all his work terminated. As his life's work was being destroyed
by Oscorp employees, an enraged Lowell tried to fight them off, only to
become drenched in his formula, and knocked into a wall of solar lamps.
The combination of the Goblin Serum-esque chemical and the electricity
caused Lowell to mutate into a light-based being dubbed "SUNDOWN". After
going on a rampage through New York, Sundown was defeated and imprisoned
by Spider-Man and several other heroes. After being incarcerated for ten
years, Sundown was released from prison, but was blackmailed back into
supervillainy shortly afterward by mob boss Lucky Lobo. Eventually
turning against Lobo, Sundown, with Spider-Man's help, was able to
expose his crimes. Afterward, Sundown declined Spider-Man's offer of
becoming a superhero, in favor of a normal life.

