HUMMINGBIRD is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . She made her debut in the 2012
Scarlet Spider comic book series written by Christopher Yost.


Publication history

Created by artist Ryan Stegman and writer Christopher Yost, she first
appeared in Scarlet Spider vol. 2 #1. She took on the superhero
identity of Hummingbird during Scarlet Spider vol. 2 #17.

Along with Kaine, the Scarlet Spider, she joined the New Warriors on the
2014 Volume 5 version of the team.


Fictional character biography

[Scarlet Spider vol. 2 #16 (April 2013)]Born as Mar√≠a Aracely Josefina
Penalba de las Heras, she is originally from an unspecified location in
Mexico. However, she may be the reincarnation of the Aztec God of War
Huitzilopochtli and has been labeled as a demigod by the High
Evolutionary.

She has no recollection of her life previous to her arrival to Houston,
Texas with the exception of the event that took her there: her forced
trafficking at the hands of the Lobo Cartel and the singular
circumstances of it.

Scarlet Spider

The story of Aracely starts in darkness, among the dead. Buried in a
pile of corpses of her fellow passengers and barely alive, she was the
only survivor of an horrific ordeal, where they cooked alive inside the
metallic container of a truck that smuggled them from Mexico to Houston
Harbor. Outside, members of the Lobo Cartel were discussing with another
group the last-minute details of the exchange of money for people,
ignorant that the human trafficking operation had been botched since it
begun. They were interrupted when an assailant began to attack them:
Kaine, who initially assumed they were just drug dealers he could steal
money from, picks them off one by one.

Upon scaring away the last criminals and collecting the money that was
meant to be the payment, Kaine notices the odor coming from the
container. It is then that he discovers what's inside - a scene
frighteningly similar to one of his earliest memories and a person who
just like him back then, clings to life. Aracely is taken to the Park
Plaza Hospital where, after a brief initial violent misunderstanding,
she is placed by Kaine to the care of Dr. Donald Meland and police
officer Wally Layton is informed of her situation and of the corpses at
the harbor.

When a fire-manipulating assassin called The Salamander breaks in
searching for her, she is saved again by Kaine, now as the Scarlet
Spider. Compelled by doctor Donald and officer Wally, who reason that
Aracely would be better off in his hands, Kaine brings Aracely to his
room at the Four Seasons Hotel (as otherwise she would eventually be
deported and end up at the mercy of whoever sent the super-powered
killer).

As Aracely recovers and gains strength, she begins to form bonds of
friendship with Kaine, Donald, Wally and Annabelle Adams, a bartender of
the hotel. However, at the same time, she starts to manifest strange
abilities and a preternatural knowledge of Kaine's location, feelings
and thoughts at all times. However, she is unable to recall anything
from her past as she suffered some kind of memory loss when she was
trafficked.

New Warriors


Powers and abilities

She appears to have some kind of psychic power similar to Madame Web's.
Being able to detect other people's feelings, thoughts and locate them
wherever they are. However, she is also able to manipulate emotions and
cause severe feats of fear and panic in her opponents - even specific
kinds of fear (like arachnophobia). She has demonstrated the capacity to
project her own thoughts into the minds of others to communicate with
them.

In relation to the aforementioned, she possesses some sort of special
"connection" with Kaine, being able to read and sense him even from
great distances. Practically, no thought of his is hidden from her. The
exception being the occasions when Kaine is dominated by the Other and
transforms into a spider monster.

She can levitate (or "float"), which she can use to remain far off the
ground during battle, carry team members through obstacles or
going so far as to apparently remain in the air without moving, usually
in an upside-down lotus position (even while sleeping).

She has once invoked and hurtled sacred fire at an aggressive demon
("The Hand of Chthon") when this one tried to possess Thor, burning him
to death. However, she was overcome in that moment by Huitzilopochtli
and had no memory of the event after it concluded. Haechi, who observed
the whole thing, described it as Hummingbird BECOMING FIRE.

Additionally, she appears to be able to learn any language from other
people's minds via telepathy. Besides her native Spanish, she has
demonstrated fluency in French, Japanese, English (which she apparently
didn't know before suddenly start talking it) and more recently
Romanian.

The full extent of and number of her abilities and powers is unknown at
the moment as well as the exact nature behind them, other than they
appear to involve magic energies of some kind; according to the High
Evolutionary, Hummingbird "reeks of magic".

