JUNKPILE is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character appeared in 's
2099 universe, a look at superheroes in the year 2099. He was one of the
main antagonists of a future incarnation of the X-Men called X-Men 2099,
and briefly was affiliated with both the X-Men and SHIELD.


Fictional character biography

The earliest known information about Junkpile's past are of his
involvement in the outlaw group The Lawless, with the soon-to-be founder
of the X-Men 2099, Xi'an Chi Xan. After Xi'an left the Lawless to find
purpose in his life, it can be inferred that Junkpile followed, joining
him for a time at his mutant gatherings in Nevada.

At the start of the imprint Junkpile is seen as a bouncer for the
gatherings, though his intentions are made clear early on as he allows a
sniper in to attempt to assassinate Xi'an. The sniper fails, but Xi'an's
X-Men must face Junkpile again as they attempt to clear Xi'an's name of
the murder of casino boss Noah Synge, whose son had hired Junkpile to
betray Xi'an. In the coming battle Junkpile kills Serpentina, but is
ultimately defeated by Xi'an.

As the X-Men escape, Junkpile is incapacitated by the Synges and sold to
a bioship. His transport is derailed however, by La Lunatica, who
revives him and hires him to help her escape her former captors, the
Theatre of Pain. This leads him to meet up again with Xi'an, who has
defected from his X-Men as his amoral Lawless persona has emerged, and
Skullfire, who followed Xi'an for fun. Skullfire initially attacks
Junkpile, seeking revenge over the death of Serpentina, but is dissuaded
by Luna, whom he has built a relationship with. Together, they all
invade the hideout of The Driver, a mutant who had been storing other
mutants genetically in his computer for decades, awaiting a time when
they could be revived and live without being persecuted. Brimstone Love,
leader of the Theatre of Pain, attacks and destroys the Driver's
computer. Distraught, the Driver wounds Junkpile and escapes. Junkpile
is last seen unconscious, chaotically drawing any localized machinery to
himself in an attempt to repair his body.

He is later rescued and revived by Doom 2099, who has imposed himself as
the U.S. President, reinstating S.H.I.E.L.D. and deputizing Junkpile as
a law enforcer, tasking him with taking down the western U.S. "Red
Market" (rich companies experimenting on destitute citizens). To this
end he is dispatched to the Theatre of Pain's Floodgate facility. His
assault seems fruitful at first, but he is easily taken down by
Brimstone Love and dumped into a trash chute. Shortly after Skullfire is
dumped in the same trash chute, where they reluctantly work together to
escape, before the acidic wash floods the chamber to break down the
refuse. As they escape the waste chamber Junkpile is attacked by La
Lunatica, who incapacitates him with her psychic vampirism.


Powers and abilities

Junkpile has a unique techno-organic physiology which allows him to
construct his body entirely out of metal. This grants him with increased
strength, stamina, and resistance to physical injury. He also has
telekinetic abilities so that he can draw and bond metal objects to
himself to add to his body or rebuild himself when destroyed.


Other versions

Timestorm 2009â€“2099

Junkpile appears as an X-Man in the Timestorm 2009-2099 miniseries. In
this version he appears as a sentient self-regenerating piece of Stark
Technology. 

In Secret Wars 2099 issue #2, Junkpile appears, fighting Hercules.

