is a fictional character that appears in comic books published by 
Comics. She was portrayed by Tao Okamoto in the 2013 film, The
Wolverine, in which Mariko is Wolverine's love interest.


Publication history

Created by Chris Claremont and John Byrne, the character first appeared
in Uncanny X-Men #118 (February, 1979).


Fictional character biography

Mariko was the daughter of Shingen Yashida, the half-sister of Kenuichio
Harada/Silver Samurai, and cousin of Sunfire and Sunpyre and the aunt of
Shingen "Shin" Harada. Upon her father's death, she became head (Oyabun)
of his Yakuza crime family, Clan Yashida.

She first met the X-Men when they returned from a sojourn in the Savage
Land and were asked to help Japan, which was being blackmailed by the
terrorist Moses Magnum. At that time she encountered Wolverine in a
private moment, which developed into a mutual attraction. Afterwards,
Mariko would frequently visit the United States to see Wolverine.

Some time later, however, Mariko was married by her father, Shingen
Yashida, to the leader of a Yakuza gang to solidify his connections to
the Japanese underworld, and was subjected to brutal domestic abuse by
her husband. She was later used by him to maneuver Wolverine into
participating in an assassination of a rival by having the superhero
inadvertently provide a distraction while protecting his true
love/girlfriend from the rival's own assassins. This also had the
intended effect of deepening Mariko's disgust for Logan upon witnessing
him going berserk in battle. However, Mariko soon realized that her
father was evil and was shaming her family with his sinister schemes. To
stop him, Mariko planned to kill her father and then commit seppuku in
recompense, but Logan, learning the truth about his manipulation and
inspired by a personal epiphany about his humanity, attacked her father
and slew him in a fair battle of honor before she could act. In doing
so, Logan was convinced that Mariko would be honorbound to kill him for
that and was prepared to die at her hands rather than harm her in
self-defense. However, Mariko explained her opinion of her father and
presented the family katana to him as a token of her approval of him as
an honorable warrior who is properly entitled to it.

At this, Mariko happily became Logan's fiancee, but their wedding was
halted by the supervillain Mastermind, who used a mind control device to
change Mariko's mind. When the control was lifted, Wolverine and
Mariko resumed their romantic relationship after a period of separation,
but have not reconsidered marriage. Mariko also refused any closer
engagement with him until she had dealt with her father's criminal
legacy, which she felt honor-bound to rectify.

The X-Men returned from the first Secret Wars and accidentally ending up
in Japan, fighting a dragon their companion Lockheed had brought along.
During the chaos, a young girl named Amiko Kobayashi loses her mother
when a collapsing building crushes her. Dying, the woman begs Wolverine
to take care of her daughter. Since Wolverine could not take care of
her himself, he chose to place Amiko in Mariko's care, whom the girl
soon adopted as a surrogate mother. Amiko and Mariko were at one point
targeted by Ogun, one of Wolverine's old enemies, but the attack was
averted by Wolverine and Kitty Pryde.

Mariko was poisoned with tetrodotoxin from a blowfish by an assassin
named Reiko, in the hire of her rival Matsu'o Tsurayaba. She asked
Wolverine to kill her to avoid a painful death and preserve her honor.
Wolverine killed her and vowed to avenge Mariko by yearly severing parts
of Matsu'o's body on the anniversary of her death.

Phaedra, an agent of the Hand, resurrected Shingen and stole a piece of
Wolverine's soul to torture him. Wolverine made a deal with Azrael, the
Angel of Death, where he would kill Phaedra to stop her resurrecting the
dead if Azrael would heal his soul. Phaedra attempted to convince
Wolverine to spare her life by offering to resurrect Mariko, but
Wolverine refused. He stated he would pay any price to bring Mariko
back, but he deeply loved Mariko because she was a better person than
him in every way, and she would never accept life if it meant that
someone as evil as Phaedra was allowed to live as well.

Many years later, Wolverine was captured by the Devil and taken to Hell.
In order to have Wolverine comply with his demands, the lord of Hell had
Mariko's soul (who had been condemned to Hell for her leadership of the
Yashida clan's criminal activities) brought to him and torture Wolverine
into submission. Wolverine, however, was eventually rescued by his old
friend from Alpha Flight, Puck, and his own father. When Logan
finally prepared to flee Hell, he intended to take Mariko with him, but
with nothing to return to in this life, she asked him to leave her
behind and return to Earth and reclaim his own life, a request Logan
reluctantly acquiesced.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the "Age of Apocalypse" timeline, Mariko was a member of the Human
High Council, a group of humans that opposed Apocalypse's tyrannical
rule. While not engaged to Logan, Mariko was his former lover and she
birthed him a daughter, Kirika, who is an amalgam of X-23 and her 616
daughter Amiko Kobayashi. Mariko participates in an attempt to bomb
forces of Apocalypse based in North America, though she knows this would
mean extensive civilian deaths.

Exiles

[The death of Sunfire. Art by Clayton Henry.|thumb]

In an alternate universe (Earth-2109), Mariko was Sunfire and became a
member of the Exiles from issue #2 (September, 2001) until her death in
issue #37 (January, 2004) of their ongoing series. In the 2109 alternate
universe, Mariko had the same powers as her 616  Universe
counterpart Sunfire and his sister Sunpyre. This version was created by
Judd Winick and Mike McKone. A Japanese citizen and a member of the
X-Men in her reality, she was one of 's few openly homosexual
characters. She has a relationship with one reality's version of
Spider-Woman, Mary Jane Watson.

Reception

Sunfire's open homosexuality has attracted some interest after coming
out in issue #11. Her death has also garnered some attention. Perry
Moore includes her as an example of the poor treatment of gay
superheroes, paralleling the earlier Women in Refrigerators.

Judd Winick has been accused of pursuing some broader social agenda,
making Sunfire gay being one of his ideas used to support this notion,
as he explains in an interview with Comic Book Resources:

What If?

In the What If story "If Wolverine Had Married Mariko", their marriage
is not hindered by Mastermind, and Wolverine becomes head of the Shingen
clan. However, they soon have to contend with the Yakuza, all united by
the Kingpin. Although they appear to prevail with the aid of the Silver
Samurai and Sunfire, Mariko is eventually assassinated by the Samurai
himself, who had turned traitor, leaving a devastated Wolverine to
return to the X-Men.

Wolverine Noir

Mariko appears in Wolverine Noir as a businesswoman looking to expand
her father's interests into New York City.

Wolverine MAX

Mariko appears in Wolverine MAX as a member of the Yashida clan during
the early 1900s. She met and fell in love with Logan, but their
relationship ended after he killed her father. In the present, Logan
is shown in a relationship with a woman named Yami Yashida, until she is
killed in a plane crash.


In other media

Television

-   Mariko appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode "Code of
    Conduct" voiced by Gwendoline Yeo. She's depicted as Logan's former,
    lost sweetheart, girlfriend, lover, and the reluctant wife of the
    Silver Samurai. A memory flashback showed how she strongly fell
    romantically in love with Wolverine, but the Yakuza clan had him
    duel the Silver Samurai for her. When Silver Samurai had abducted
    the X-Men years later, Mariko arrived at the Japanese Embassy
    looking for her power-hungry husband. She was present at the recent
    duel with Silver Samurai and Wolverine. After Silver Samurai acted
    dishonorably by using his mutant abilities when it was not allowed,
    the Yakuza Leader annulled the duel and had his men take Silver
    Samurai away as he had disgraced and dishonored the Yakuza clan.
    When the Yakuza leader agreed to release the captive X-Men, she told
    Wolverine that Silver Samurai will be driven from the Yakuza in
    shame and that they will not admit him again. When Wolverine asks
    her why she had chosen the Silver Samurai over him, she said that
    the Yakuza would have killed them both had she not chosen the Silver
    Samurai, as they awaited her decision with drawn swords. She said
    that marrying the Silver Samurai was the only honorable thing she
    could do, even if it meant keeping her and Logan forever apart from
    one another. Mariko and Wolverine then went their separate ways.
-   Mariko appears in twelve-episode  Anime: Wolverine voiced by
    Fumiko Orikasa in the Japanese dub and Gwendoline Yeo for the
    English dub. In this series, which is not continuous with the 
    franchises, Mariko is arranged to be married to the current leader
    of Madripoor. Logan spends the entire series on a quest to free her
    from this engagement so they can be together again. In the twelfth
    and last episode, Mariko is accidentally shot in the chest and dies
    peacefully in the saddened Logan's arms, but not before confessing
    her strong and true romantic feelings and undying romantic love she
    has for Logan and assures him that she will always be with him.

Film

-   Mariko Yashida appeared as a major character and Wolverine's love
    interest in the 2013 film, The Wolverine, in which she is
    portrayed by Tao Okamoto. In this version Mariko was the
    granddaughter of Ichir≈ç Yashida, the man whom Wolverine saves during
    the Nagasaki bombing, and daughter of Shingen Yashida. At her
    grandfather's funeral, she was kidnapped by the Yakuza (the generic
    name for an organized crime syndicate originating from Japan), but
    saved by Wolverine. Then they hide in Yashida's house and as they
    start to fall for each other, Mariko is kidnapped and taken to her
    father Shingen at Yashida Corporation's headquarters. He reveals
    that he was who ordered the Yakuza to kidnap and ultimately
    assassinate her because her grandfather Ichir≈ç had left her the
    empire instead of him. Kenuichio Harada comes to save her with a
    Black Ninja clan and take Mariko to a research center based where
    Ichir≈ç was born. There it is revealed that Ichir≈ç is alive and
    planned to use Mariko as a bait to capture Wolverine and extract his
    immortality using a robotic armor made of adamantium (which
    resembles the Silver Samurai armor). However she manages to free
    Wolverine by directing the machine Logan is in into the Silver
    Samurai's sword strike, breaking it and freeing him. Mariko then
    kills Yashida with Wolverine's discarded claws, allowing him to
    finish him off. Mariko becomes the CEO of Yashida Corporation and
    says goodbye to Wolverine, hoping to see him again.

