MONDO is the name of two fictional comic book characters that have
appeared in the  series Generation X. The first Mondo was
a superhero later revealed to be a clone of the supervillain Mondo, who
appeared years later. The first Mondo's first appearance was in
Generation X #3.


Fictional character biography

Not much is known of the Samoan mutant called Mondo. He was once friends
with Cordelia Frost, Emma Frost's younger sister. In an attempt to
make a bid for the position of White Queen of the Hellfire Club,
Cordelia had Mondo contained and handed him over to the Inner Circle of
the Hellfire Club. Cordelia's scheme backfired; the Hellfire Club kept
Mondo but denied Cordelia membership. Cordelia went to Emma,
headmistress of the Massachusetts Academy, for help and, soon after,
Mondo was rescued by Generation X and subsequently accepted an
invitation to join the school.

However, Generation X later learned that the Mondo they had rescued
wasn't the real Mondo but a clone, a plant-based simulacrum created by
Black Tom Cassidy who had infiltrated the Hellfire Club and rescued
Mondo. After taking Mondo under his wing, Black Tom created a clone of
the young mutant to infiltrate the Massachusetts Academy so that Black
Tom could exact vengeance on his cousin, Banshee, who was the headmaster
of the Academy.

As Banshee and Emma Frost battled Black Tom, the Mondo clone began
hunting down the members of Generation X. However, as the Mondo clone
was about to attack Jubilee, it was shot dead by the anti-mutant
militant Bastion, chief operative of Operation: Zero Tolerance.

Later, the real Mondo appeared alongside Black Tom and Juggernaut.
Completely loyal to Black Tom, the real Mondo battled the members of
Generation X. Generation X attempted to talk to Mondo into not fighting,
but Mondo laughed at them, reminding them that he has never met them
before. Generation X and their teachers were able to defeat their
opponents, but the trio still managed to escape.

Mondo was most recently confirmed to still be alive and powered as he
appeared with the rest of Generation X during Cyclops' Million Mutant
March in Washington D.C.


Powers and abilities

Mondo is capable of taking on the properties of any organic or inorganic
material with which he comes into contact. When using his power, Mondo
is able to grow in mass with an assumed proportionate growth in strength
to superhuman levels.

Mondo can absorb matter into his body, gaining the mass, appearance, and
other properties of the matter in question. This change will remain
until Mondo's body "digests" the organic matter, which is then
disintegrated.

Mondo is also able to use his power to travel through organic matter,
such as dirt, and can appear instantaneously in the immediate vicinity
of where he entered the earth.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse Mondo was one of the members of Generation
Next taught by Colossus and his wife Shadowcat. Unlike his Earth 616
counterpart, Mondo was truly heroic and had no reservations whatsoever
about helping the innocent. They were given the mission by Magneto to
infiltrate the CORE -- a prison facility watched over by the Sugar
Manâ€”and rescue Colossus' sister Illyana, who was crucial to Bishop's
plan to save all of reality. Mondo was given the task of sneaking in
through the ground and finding Illyana. He let the little girl stay in
his stomach while he was in this dirt form, but he had to be wary not to
keep her in too long or else she would be digested. Despite his best
efforts, Sugar Man found the pair and was able to kill Mondo with his
razor-sharp tongue, even though Mondo was still in his dirt form. He
constantly referred to himself in the third person.


In other media

Film

In the Generation X TV movie, Mondo was played by Bumper Robinson. In
the film, he is jokingly said to hate Jello because he fears he may
accidentally absorb its consistency, which may be a reference to Bumper
Robinson's first acting roll: a Jell-O Pudding Pop commercial.

