MYSTIQUE (RAVEN DARKHÖLME) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by , most commonly in
association with the X-Men. Created by artist David Cockrum and writer
Chris Claremont, she first appeared in the comic book Ms.  #16,
published in 1978.

Mystique is a member of a subspecies of humanity known as mutants, who
are born with superhuman abilities. Mystique is a shapeshifter who can
mimic the appearance and voice of any person with exquisite precision,
and her natural appearance includes blue skin and yellow eyes. She is
typically portrayed as a foe of the X-Men.

Throughout most of her history, Mystique has been a supervillain,
founding her own Brotherhood of Mutants and assassinating several
important people involved in mutant affairs. At one point, she mentions
that she is over 100 years old. Mystique is the mother of the villain
Graydon Creed, the X-Men hero Nightcrawler, and adoptive mother of
the heroine Rogue. She is forced to abandon Nightcrawler, but raises
Rogue for a number of years, and the two women have mixed feelings
towards one another.

Mystique appears in five of the X-Men films: she was portrayed by
actress Rebecca Romijn in the first three installments, while Oscar
winner Jennifer Lawrence portrayed a younger version of the character in
X-Men: First Class (in which Romijn has a cameo), X-Men: Days of
Future Past, and the upcoming X-Men: Apocalypse. In 2009,
Mystique was ranked as IGN's 18th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All
Time.


Publication history

Mystique was created by artist David Cockrum. Chris Claremont saw
Cockrum's design, dubbed the character "Mystique", and, with Cockrum's
permission, set her in Ms.  No.16 (May 1978).

Claremont, a former X-Men writer, has said that he originally intended
Mystique and Destiny to be Nightcrawler's biological parents (with
Mystique having morphed into a male body for the act of conception),
but  didn't agree, because at that time the Comics Code Authority
prohibited the explicit portrayal of gay or bisexual characters.
Much later, the two were depicted to have been a couple.


Fictional character biography

Mystique's exact age remains unknown. Her earliest meeting with her
lover Destiny (Irene Adler) occurred around "the dawn of the 20th
century."

Graydon Creed

Raven adopts the identity of deceased German secret agent Leni Zauber.
Both Leni and Victor Creed, a.k.a. Sabretooth, had been assigned with
the assassination of a scientist in East Berlin. Raven completes the
mission in place of Leni, and then she and Victor have to hide in a safe
location for a while. They become lovers, but she soon fakes her death
in order to leave him.

The result of this short-lived affair is reportedly the birth of Graydon
Creed. A number of stories report that soon after his birth, Raven gives
him up for adoption. Others depict Mystique making arrangements for him
from a distance. Raven keeps track of his activities until he reaches
adolescence. Despite being the child of two mutants, Graydon is not a
mutant himself. Raven is disappointed and soon abandons him. Graydon
grows to hate his parents, and eventually extends his hatred to all
mutants. He later becomes leader of the mutant-hating organization
Friends of Humanity, and then a politician. Graydon, at the height of
his political ascension, is assassinated by an unknown shooter. The
shooter is later revealed to be a time traveling version of Mystique, as
part of a convoluted time paradox involving Jean Grey, Iceman, Toad, and
Juggernaut.

Nightcrawler

Raven is married to Baron Christian Wagner; older sources give his name
as Count Eric Wagner, an affluent member of the German nobility. He
proves to be a loving husband, but disappointing as a lover. His
infertility adds to their marital problems. Raven starts using her
shapeshifting powers in order to secretly have sexual encounters with
others. She is eventually seduced by fellow mutant Azazel. Azazel states
that he is ruler of "an island nation off the coast of Bermuda: La Isla
des Demonas," The Island of Demons. He is later revealed to also have
the power of immortality and to be the father of an ancient race of
mutants known as the Neyaphem, active since at least 2000 BC.

Raven becomes pregnant. Her husband becomes suspicious and his own
father suggests a blood test to verify whether the child is his.
Mystique uses a dagger to murder him and then buries him. She gives
birth to a young boy with black hair, yellow eyes, blue skin, and a
pointed tail. The locals consider the mother and child to be demons, and
attempt to kill them. Mystique escapes but abandons her son. He is found
and raised by Gypsy sorceress Margali Szardos and named Kurt Wagner.

Rogue

Mystique later becomes the adoptive mother of the four-year-old girl
Rogue. Rogue had run away from her home in rural Caldecott County,
Mississippi. The girl was living alone in a wooded area, brandishing a
shotgun and trusting no one, when Mystique found her. Destiny foresees
that Rogue will be important to them and Mystique seeks her out, gains
her trust, and takes her in. She and Destiny raise the girl, and
Mystique grows to be very protective of her.

Mystique, as Raven Darkhölme, rises rapidly through the United States
Civil Service to the trusted position of Deputy Director of the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) in the United States
Department of Defense. This position gives her access to military
secrets and advanced weaponry, both of which she uses for her own
criminal and subversive purposes. In this position, she attempts the
theft of the Centurion weaponry from S.H.I.E.L.D. She also beat Ms.
's lover Michael Barnett to death, and sought to kill Ms.
.

To help her in her criminal activities, Mystique organizes her own
incarnation of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, consisting of herself,
Avalanche, the Blob, Destiny, and Pyro. The Brotherhood attempts to
assassinate Senator Robert Kelly, a notoriously anti-mutant politician.
The X-Men thwart the assassination attempt, and all of the Brotherhood
save Mystique herself are incarcerated.

Rogue is trained by Mystique and eventually joins the Brotherhood of
Evil Mutants. Her mutant power is the ability to absorb the memories,
personality, and skills or powers of whomever she touches. To free the
other members of the Brotherhood, Mystique concocts a plan involving
Rogue absorbing the powers of Ms.  and the Avengers. Though the
plan is successful, the Avengers ultimately defeat the Brotherhood of
Evil Mutants, capturing all of them except Rogue and Mystique. Moreover,
Rogue finds that she has absorbed Ms. 's memories, personality,
and powers permanently. In a further humiliation, a confrontation at
the Pentagon ends with Mystique being defeated and turned over to the
authorities by a powerless Ms. .

The Brotherhood of Evil Mutants eventually escape, and battle against
Dazzler. However, in an act of revenge against Mystique, Mastermind
unbalances Rogue's psyche with the one she absorbed from Ms. ,
which prompts her to defect to the X-Men. Because Rogue left without
a word, Mystique assumes that Professor X, the X-Men's mentor,
brainwashed her. The Brotherhood of Evil Mutants accordingly launches an
attempt to kill Professor X. However, Rogue stops Mystique, and explains
that she joined the X-Men because Professor X, as the world's most
powerful telepath, is her best hope of healing for her fragmented
psyche. Mystique reluctantly relinquishes her guardianship of Rogue.

Freedom Force

Later, anti-mutant sentiment rises and the federal government launches
its own covert anti-mutant program, Project Wideawake. Believing that
the times have become too dangerous for the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants
to continue, Mystique goes to Doctor Valerie Cooper, special assistant
to the head of the National Security Council, and offers the
Brotherhood's services to the government. In return for entering
government service, Mystique and her team receive a presidential pardon
for all criminal charges, to be revoked if any member of Freedom Force
is found committing a crime. Cooper agrees to convey the offer to the
President on the condition that the Brotherhood arrests their founder,
Magneto. The Brotherhood, now reincarnated as Freedom Force, are
defeated by Magneto and the X-Men. However, when Magneto learns that
Freedom Force are official federal agents, he voluntarily surrenders to
them.

Mystique leads Freedom Force in capturing the Avengers on behalf of the
federal government. She clashes with X-Factor in seeking to arrest
Rusty Collins. With Freedom Force, she fights the X-Men in Dallas,
and witnesses her foster daughter's apparent demise. With Freedom
Force, she battles Cyclops and  Girl. With Freedom Force she
seeks to arrest Rusty Collins again, and battles the New Mutants.
She finally succeeds in capturing Collins as well as Skids. She
leads Freedom Force against the Reavers on Muir Island. On this
particularly disastrous mission, Freedom Force loses two of its members,
Stonewall and Mystique's lover Destiny. The death of her lover
leaves Mystique psychologically scarred.

Mystique is later nearly killed by Dr. Valerie Cooper, who is under the
Shadow King's mental control. She then impersonates Dr. Valerie
Cooper. Mystique is eventually discovered impersonating Dr. Cooper,
and saves Xavier's life by killing the Shadow King's human host, Jacob
Reisz. She finally reconciles with Rogue. In time, she comes to
terms with Destiny's death. She teams with Spiral and Wolverine in
thwarting Mojo's near-destruction of the universe. Mystique later
briefly stays as a guest at Xavier's mansion. She begins going insane,
and leaves the mansion under the care of Forge.

X-Factor

Mystique resurfaces several months later, in a failed attempt to kill
Legion for his murdering of Destiny. Mystique has an implant put in her
skull by Forge in order for the government to be able to keep track of
her. She is then forced to become a member of the government-sponsored
team X-Factor after being arrested for trying to blow up a dam. In
truth, Mystique had been trying to save the dam, which the U.S.
Government wanted to destroy so that they could blame it on mutants. Her
membership leads to tension with her teammates when Sabretooth is added
to the team months later as a sleeper agent, for the main purpose of
killing Mystique before she can uncover the truth about the conspiracy.
She slowly develops a romantic relationship with team-leader Forge
(though he later thought that she was just using him).

Part of the conspiracy involves Mystique's son Graydon Creed running for
President, under an anti-mutant platform.

At the same time, both Graydon and Mystique learn that Destiny married
and had children during one of the couple's separations. Irene's
children are now adults with their own children, one of which is a
mutant. Graydon has the mutant teen savagely beaten by members of the
Friends of Humanity, as a warning towards his mother. Mystique is
furious and wants to kill her son, but stops when she is given a message
that Graydon's backers want her to kill him and turn her son into a
martyr.

Mystique then seeks to save her son from being betrayed by his backers,
but fails. Graydon's death ushers in a new wave of anti-mutant violence.
Sabretooth acts on his orders to kill the members of X-Factor as
"Operation Zero Tolerance" is activated. Mystique distracts Sabretooth
long enough to keep him from finishing off the team. Mystique then flees
the scene after arranging for X-Factor to receive medical treatment for
the wounds Sabretooth inflicted.

Mystique goes into hiding, taking the identity of the senator's wife
Mallory Brickman, using her husband's influence to set the FBI on
Sabretooth. She prevents Rogue from giving up her mutant powers and
continues her investigation of the U.S. Government over her son's death,
leading to her aiding Toad and his most recent incarnation of the
Brotherhood of Mutants on a mission to raid a government base. The
mission fails thanks to Machine Man, who fights the Brotherhood and
forces the team to flee. Mystique flees to Europe. While taking the form
of a blonde haired woman, Mystique is confronted by a famous
photographer who proposes to make her a big fashion model.

Amused, Mystique accepts and quickly becomes the fashion industry's
newest top model. Using her money, Mystique moves back to New York and
into an expensive penthouse apartment. There, Skrulls staying in a
nearby building frame Mystique for the murder of a Japanese diplomat.
With help from Shadowcat and Rogue, Mystique is cleared and leaves town.
Before she leaves, Shadowcat finds one of Destiny's diaries, left there
by Destiny herself before she died.

Breakdown

While gaining critical intelligence on the identity of those who were
involved in her son's death and the attempt to kill her using
Sabretooth, Mystique suddenly loses her powers while pretending to be a
man in a busy office workplace.

Mystique is arrested. The U.S. Government acts on their intelligence
regarding Mystique, and destroys all of the alternate identities that
she established over the years and confiscate the money she and Destiny
had hidden away. The loss of her powers and her freedom causes her to
lash out at everyone around her. Rogue has no sympathy for Mystique's
plight. The relationship sours when Rogue refuses to tell Mystique that
the X-Men are going to fight the High Evolutionary, who was responsible
for depowering all mutants, in order to restore everyone's powers. The
X-Men defeat the High Evolutionary and restore everyone's powers,
allowing Mystique to escape jail.

Mystique is later sent back in time by the original X-Factor's sentient
ship. Raven finds that she is destined to be part of a great time
paradox, where she finds herself with a time delay weapon, which she is
about to program to kill Graydon. After some deliberation, she decides
to activate the weapon to kill Graydon. Mystique's sanity is further
damaged by the revelation that Destiny was one of the founding members
of the anti-mutant conspiracy Mystique had dedicated countless years to
fighting, and had willfully withheld medical treatment to mutant
children that would have resulted in them not growing up deformed due to
their mutations.

This leads to Raven again going mad. She reforms the Brotherhood of Evil
Mutants for another assassination attempt on Senator Kelly, and kidnaps
Moira MacTaggert and impersonates her in order to access her research on
the Legacy Virus. Mystique uses samples of the Legacy Virus to create a
biological weapon that would infect humans and not mutants, and develops
a cure for the Legacy Virus.

The assassination attempt on Kelly ends in failure when Pyro betrays his
teammates. Mystique blows up MacTaggert's research facility, fatally
injuring the doctor. Mystique then shoots Moira's foster daughter
Wolfsbane with a prototype of Forge's neutralizer gun, depowering her.
The X-Men confront Mystique and she is seriously wounded. She tells the
X-Men that Destiny had predicted a dark future for mutant-kind, and that
the future Destiny foretold kept on unfolding despite all that Mystique
had done to prevent it. She believes that the only way to save them is
to eradicate all humans.

Mystique is sent to prison, but quickly escapes. She allies herself with
Martinique Jason in an attempt to wrest control of the X-Corps from its
founder, Banshee. Outfitted with a device that gives her the ability to
generate an electrical charge, Mystique creates the identity of a
supervillain named Surge and joins the X-Corps. While Jason
mind-controls the other members of the organization, Mystique brings
Banshee's organization down and slits his throat, leaving him in
critical condition.

Double agent

Professor X is forced to make Mystique his secret agent, as his previous
one, Prudence Leighton, has died and Mystique is the only one suitable
to complete the missions. Xavier poses as Magneto to rescue Mystique
from the Department of Homeland Security and from execution at the hands
of Johny Kitano, Special Magistrate for Homo Superior crimes against
humanity, and a mutant himself. At this time, Mystique claims that
there is an imposter out to frame her, taking control over the
Brotherhood and sending them on their recent missions (the assassination
of Moira and the infiltration of X-Corps). As long as Mystique completes
the missions without killing anybody, Xavier keeps her safe from the
authorities, who are out to execute her. Working with Xavier is Forge.

One of Xavier's enemies, the Quiet Man, who is actually Prudence
Leighton inhabiting the body of her assassin, contacts Mystique and
offers to give her an interference transmitter which would keep her safe
from the authorities if she kills Xavier. Creating a plan that would
free her from both men, Mystique pretends to try killing Xavier while
secretly working with the mutant thief Fantomex, after alerting Forge to
stop her at the last moment. Her plan is to have the Quiet Man see this
and believe that she really has attempted to kill Xavier and is still
working for him. The other X-Men believe that Mystique has tried killing
Xavier and seek her out.

Rogue tracks her down. Distraught with rage, she attacks her foster
mother. Mystique escapes by blowing up the house and going through the
window, changing her form to shield her fall.

Mystique goes to the Quiet Man, who is planning on having her killed.
After a battle, Mystique kills the Quiet Man, saves her former
field-handler Shortpack, and discovers the Quiet Man's interference
transmitter was a fake. She tries to steal Forge's interference
transmitter but is caught. After some angry words, he smashes it and
tells her he never wants to see her again. The two share a sad goodbye
kiss and Mystique leaves. After Mystique is gone, Forge realizes that
she had already switched his transmitter for the fake one.

Joining the X-Men

Mystique later infiltrates the X-Men, posing as a young girl named FOXX
and joining Gambit's training squad, the Chevaliers. She attempts to
seduce Rogue's boyfriend Gambit to break them up so she can set her
daughter up with a young mutant named Augustus, but Gambit resists.
Mystique ultimately reveals herself to him, telling him that she is
trying to relieve the tension between him and Rogue (because of the two
being unable to touch due to her ability to absorb someone's essence
upon skin-to-skin contact). Mystique then metamorphoses into Rogue and
tells Gambit that he would not be cheating on Rogue if he had sex with
her in Rogue's form.

When the telepath Emma Frost discovers who Foxx really is, the X-Men
confront Mystique. Mystique tells them that she had been lonely and
wants to join the X-Men. Mystique uses Rogue's doubts about what
happened between her and Gambit to sow further discord in Rogue's
relationship with Gambit.

The X-Men vote and decide to have Mystique join them on a probationary
status (though Rogue is one of the ones who vote against her joining).
Nightcrawler asks her to leave for a while regardless of the vote,
saying that he needs more time adjusting to the idea of her being a
member. Mystique agrees and leaves. After M-Day, she joins the X-Men
and brings Augustus (Pulse) along with her. Both have been crucial in
the downfall of Apocalypse.

Marauders

After the Hecatomb battle on Providence, Rogue's team returns to Rogue's
childhood home in Caldecott County, Mississippi, which Mystique owns for
some downtime. Mystique alerts the X-Men, who come to treat Rogue's
illness, that there are intruders in the area. Only after Lady
Mastermind drops her illusions do the X-Men realize that it is an
all-out attack, and that both Lady Mastermind and Omega Sentinel (the
latter being possessed by Malice) have defected sides. During the
Marauders' initial ambush, Mystique prevents Scalphunter from shooting
Rogue. She then reveals herself as a traitor as well, shoots her adopted
daughter, and orders the remaining Marauders to kill the X-Men.

Mystique remains with the Marauders during the hunt for the first new
mutant baby, but is revealed to have murdered Mister Sinister in a plot
involving the baby and Rogue's killing touch. She also appears to be
working with Gambit, who, like her, has ulterior motives to want to
betray Mister Sinister. When Sinister approaches Mystique as she is with
the comatose Rogue, Mystique shoves Sinister onto Rogue, killing him
through fatal skin-to-skin contact. Then, in keeping with the words of
the Destiny Diaries, she touches the baby's face to Rogue's. The baby's
touch purges her of the Strain 88 virus and all the residual psyches she
had absorbed over her life, including Hecatomb. However, Rogue is
sickened by Mystique's manipulations, and leaves.

Wolverine tracks Mystique to the Middle East and then into
Afghanistan. It is hinted at that Mystique's recent betrayal is not
the only reason Logan is out to kill her, as they have a common history
of friendship, love, and ultimately, betrayal. After a heated fight,
Wolverine wounds Mystique, but denies her the Coup de grâce.

Manifest Destiny

Mystique shows up again, posing as Bobby Drake's ex-girlfriend Opal
Tanaka. She sets off a bomb inside of Bobby's Blackbird before shooting
him and kicking him out of the plane. Later, she follows Iceman to
the hospital and injects him with a fatal dose of a toxin created by
Mister Sinister. Hospital staff try to get to Iceman, but they are held
back by Mystique while Iceman expels the toxin from his system.
Afterward, Mystique attacks Iceman in a truck and sets the truck ablaze
with Iceman in it. Iceman steps out of the fire unharmed and disarms and
immobilizes Mystique, but she escapes after turning her body into her
child form. Mystique impersonates Iceman and stands on top of the Golden
Gate bridge threatening to blow it up. Iceman arrives and discovers the
reason for Mystique doing this is Wolverine telling her that she will
die alone. After a heated conversation, Iceman freezes the bomb.
Mystique jumps off the bridge into the water. Iceman tells Cyclops and
Hank McCoy that he knows that she is not dead and thanks her for what
she did for him.

Dark X-Men

Mystique joins Norman Osborn's Dark X-Men, posing as Professor Charles
Xavier for P.R. purposes. Osborn has her injected with nanites and kept
on a short leash; should she try anything, Osborn would turn her into a
human bomb. After the defection of Emma Frost, Namor, and Cloak and
Dagger, Mystique leads the remaining members of the team under the
public guise of Jean Grey, as no one could prove Jean had actually died,
but mainly to hurt those who had caused her great harm.

Wolverine, having returned from hell and retrieved his possessed body
from a demonic force, targets Mystique after finding out she was
responsible for sending his soul there at the behest of The Red Right
Hand. Mystique is shot by a hit-man named Lord Deathstrike. Badly
wounded, Mystique patches herself and escapes on a motorcycle. Wolverine
& Lord Deathstrike are in hot pursuit of Mystique throughout the San
Francisco streets simultaneously. Mystique ultimately confronts
Wolverine, who stabs her with his claws, killing her. Lord Deathstrike
collects Mystique's body and auctions it off. Her corpse is sold for 5
million to group of ninjas. It is implied these are agents of The
Hand.

Revival

Mystique is seen alive again posing as Sabretooth at Los Angeles
International Airport. In the form of Sabretooth she has agreed to
assist the Hellfire Club in their destruction of the Jean Grey School.
Mystique, as Sabretooth, was a faculty member of The Hellfire Academy.
When the Hand revived Mystique, her powers were enhanced and she is now
capable of changing her scent to match the forms she takes.

Receiving word that the original X-Men are in the present day, Mystique
seeks out young Scott Summers to manipulate him into thinking she has
his and mutantkind's best interests at heart. She uses Lady Mastermind
and Sabretooth to commit robberies and frame the X-Men. Viper shows up.
Mystique explains to her that she wants to buy Mardripoor from HYDRA and
control the crime in the area. Before this transaction is completed, the
X-Men raid the place. Lady Mastermind and Mystique are captured, but
Mystique escapes in a S.H.I.E.L.D. helicopter.

Mystique is attacked by Iceman, who is possessed by the Apocalypse
fragment. After Iceman is shattered into pieces by Thor, Mystique takes
the Apocalypse fragment and swallows it to inherit its powers.

In order to help move her plans along, Mystique drugs and replaces
Dazzler, who's now became SHIELD's mutant liaison, allowing her to set
up her New Brotherhood under Maria Hill's nose. She sets up operations
in Madripoor, allowing her to regularly visit to 'investigate' the
mutant uprising there, while secretly being the one in charge of it. She
offers Magneto a place in her New Brotherhood after he leaves the
Uncanny X-Men team, but he rejects it on the grounds of her financing
her operation via drug money from Mutant Growth Hormone sales, attacking
and defeating her Brotherhood and stealing her chopper in order to find
his own place in the new world.

Uncanny Avengers

Mystique appears as a member of Magneto's unnamed supervillain group
during the fight against Red Skull's Red Onslaught form. When the
heroes and villains present undergo a moral inversion due to a flawed
spell cast by the Scarlet Witch and Doctor Doom, Mystique joins the
other inverted villains in the 'Astonishing Avengers' as they go up
against the inverted X-Men and Avengers, also working to prevent the
inverted Nightcrawler from killing those who were involved in the riot
that nearly killed him before his first meeting with Professor X.
During the final fight, Mystique briefly poses as Professor X to try to
get through to the 'reborn' Apocalypse (Actually the now-adult clone of
Apocalypse known as Evan Sabahnur that the X-Men had been trying to
raise away from his template's influence), but is converted back to
her usual villainous attitude at the conclusion of the storyline.


Powers and abilities

Mystique is a mutant shapeshifter with the ability to psionically shift
the formation of her biological cells at will to change her appearance
and thereby assume the form of other humans and animals. She can
also alter her voice to duplicate exactly that of another person.
Originally, it was clearly stated that Mystique's powers were limited to
appearances only; she could not assume the powers of the people she
morphed into or alter her body to adapt to different situations.
Additionally she could not change her overall body mass when taking on
the appearance of a person larger or smaller, but thanks to subsequent
enhancements she has stated that her body mass is not fixed and can
change when she does.

Her body is not limited to purely organic appearances: She has the
ability to create the appearance of clothes and other materials out of
her own body, including items such as glasses, zippers, identity cards,
handbags and even test tubes. Mystique is shown in at least one instance
transforming a metallic part of her costume into a functioning blaster
pistol. Whether this is a function of her powers or of the costume piece
itself is unclear.

As a shape-shifter, Mystique is able to constantly alter and rejuvenate
her body's cells and thereby retain her youthful appearance despite
being alive for over one hundred years.

Mystique received her first power enhancement in the X-Men Forever
miniseries, in which she was exposed to dangerous levels of radiation in
order to save the life of Toad. The process boosted her powers so that
she can now morph her body into taking certain desired physical traits
depending on her situation at the time. Examples of these new abilities
include night vision, wings on her back, talons in her fingers, and
natural body armor. She can compress into nearly two-dimensional
like a sheet of paper to glide on air currents, similar to Mister
Fantastic, which she uses to survive an explosion. She has moved her
vital organs out of place in order to survive gunshots to her torso and
head, and can make herself virtually invisible via camouflage. She
has even, with strain, given herself two heads and four arms to
facilitate a gun fight on two fronts, as well as shapeshifted into
herself as a small child. She is also now able to hold a shape when
knocked unconscious and can conceal items in shapeshifted pouches
under her skin.

Following her death and revival by the Hand, her powers have been
further enhanced. She can now alter and conceal her scent from those
with enhanced senses, and is capable of changing her shape to a greater
degree, including altering her limbs to form tentacles and bladed
weapons, and compressing herself into a dog.

Damage to her biological tissue is known to heal at a relatively fast
rate and she can form a resistance to poisons upon contracting them. Her
enhancements have allowed her to rapidly regrow severed limbs, and
rapidly recover from near fatal injury. Her powers grant her immunity to
diseases, enhanced agility and strength, and agelessness.

Mystique is a cunning strategist in terrorist and commando operations,
and adept at martial arts and information technology. She has a talent
for finding, stealing, and understanding cutting edge weaponry. She is a
talented actress and a polyglot, being fluent in over fourteen
languages. Her mind is naturally unreadable owing to changing grey
matter and she wears devices to prevent telepathic intrusion.
Furthermore, with over a century's experience in posing as other people
she has picked up the uncanny skill of being able to identify people
posing as others based on body language and changes in behavioral cues.


Other versions

Absorbed by Rogue

A copy of Mystique's mind, including her memories and personality,
exists within the mind of Rogue ever since the events of "X-Men: Messiah
Complex". She converses with Rogue. She also requests that Rogue turn
over control of their body. Eventually she is erased by Professor
Xavier.

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse timeline, she gave up her adopted daughter
Rogue to Magneto and his X-Men. Years later, Mystique is the
ferrywoman to Avalon. It is her task to meet the refugees and make sure
they meet the guide to Avalon, Cain. Though she works against
Apocalypse, she is not much of a hero. She charges a heavy tariff to
ferry the refugees to Avalon, taking all of their valuables. This
plagues her conscience and she is reluctant to go to Avalon, as she
feels that she is not fit to enter. Ultimately, she gets past her guilt
to guide her son, Nightcrawler, to Avalon and find Destiny. She and her
son form X-Calibre to defeat Apocalypse's agents, the Pale Riders and
the Shadow King.

Battle of the Atom

Mystique's future is shown, where she is revealed to be the mother of
Charlie Xavier II, the son of Charles Xavier, possessing his father's
powers and appearance. While disguised as Moira MacTaggert she gives
birth to Charlie, but upon birth she tearfully abandons her child. Later
she raised her son Raze (conceived by Wolverine, with his mother's
shape-shifting skills and his father's healing ability), who eventually
killed her and took her appearance to rule Madripoor.

Cable's Future

Mystique inquires of Cable "How does [history] judge the part we play
here and now in protecting the remnants of mutant-kind?" He says
"History is short on specifics" and that it only remembers broad
movements, not individuals. She hints at wanting to know how she is
remembered, and he comments that her name did survive in a database of
his time. Her name is synonymous with traitor, comparing her name to
Judas Iscariot. He adds that the information from his time is part of
his history, as it was 2,000 years old.

Exiles

[Mystiq (Raphael-Raven Darkholme). Art by Tom Grummett.]

In the Earth-797 reality, Mystique is apparently a man and goes by the
name of Raphael-Raven Darkholme (and his alias is Mystiq). Much like the
main Mystique, he has a relationship with Destiny but due to his gender
has a child with her (Claremont's original plan for Nightcrawler's
origin). They are both killed in unknown circumstances and Raphael often
goes to their grave sites. On such an occasion, he is about to be
attacked by soldiers when the Exiles' Sabretooth, who had been stranded
on this Earth, saves his life. Saying he is in his debt, he joins the
Exiles when they come to pick up their teammate.

House of M

In the House of M, Mystique is an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. and a member of
its elite unit, the Red Guard, alongside Jessica Drew, Toad, and her
children Rogue and Nightcrawler. She's also involved in an affair with
Wolverine, the Red Guard's leader. When this unit, in pursuit of their
former leader, attacks the heroes 'awakened' by Layla Miller, the entire
squad is restored. With all of reality against them, any personal
history is set aside, and Mystique fights alongside the rest of the
'awakened' without incident.

 Mangaverse

In X-Men Mangaverse, Mystique teams up with Nightcrawler and other
Brotherhood members. Storm later kills her with a lightning bolt.

 Zombies

Mystique appears as a zombie twice in the  Zombies universe. She
is first shown disguised as Scarlet Witch, in order to get close to and
bite Quicksilver, thus becoming directly responsible for the fast spread
of the zombie virus throughout the world. She is also shown fighting
alongside zombie versions of Avalanche, Blob, and Pyro taking a direct
blast from Cyclops right to the face.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  Universe, Mystique is the former lover of Charles
Xavier. During their stay in the Savage Land with Magneto, the young
Emma Frost comes under the tutelage of Xavier, and shortly thereafter he
dumps Mystique for Frost. Ever since then, Mystique has held great
resentment toward Xavier, which in turn makes her loyal to Magneto.
She teams up with Forge and helps Magneto escape the Triskelion by
taking his place in the prison cell, before she is replaced by
Mastermind and Stacy X and given a new assignment. She is hinted to be
one of the few who actually knows how Xavier's darker side operates,
stating "We all bought into Xavier's dream until we got a look at the
sick brain behind it._" It is later revealed that Emma Frost named
Xavier's cat after Mystique, after the feline partially destroyed the
decor of his office. She briefly appears in Ultimates 3,
impersonating the Black Widow to distract Tony Stark until knocked out
by the Wasp. She is later seen with the few surviving Brotherhood
members still stationed in Wundagore.

X-Men: The End

In the trilogy book series X-Men: The End Mystique is posing as Dark
Beast and pretending to work with Mister Sinister. When Sinister murders
Rogue she kills him. Gambit later asks her to look after his and Rogue's
children when he goes off into space.

X-Men Fairy Tales

Mystique appears briefly in the X-Men Fairy Tales limited series'
first issue. She is leading a group of thieves who attack the old
monk/Professor X. They are scared away by Hitome/Cyclops. The other
thieves are Avalanche and Pyro. In the fourth issue, she appears as
Anna/Rogue's mother, a voodoo priestess.


In other media

Television

-   Mystique recurs in the 1992 X-Men animated series, voiced by
    Randall Carpenter in the first two seasons, and by Jennifer Dale for
    the rest of the show's run. She is the leader of the Brotherhood of
    Mutants and has been a close ally of Apocalypse, Mister Sinister,
    and even Magneto.
-   Mystique plays a prominent role in the 2000 animated series X-Men:
    Evolution, voiced by Colleen Wheeler. She appears as a follower of
    Magneto throughout the show's first season, and is featured
    sparingly in the second and third seasons before becoming a Horseman
    of Apocalypse in the series finale. She is also revealed to be the
    birth mother of Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner) and the adoptive mother
    of Rogue.
-   Mystique appears in the episodes "Greetings from Genosha" and
    "Battle Lines" of the 2009 animated series Wolverine and the
    X-Men, voiced by Tamara Bernier. She is an Acolyte of Magneto who
    has a romantic history with Wolverine.
-   Mystique is featured in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Deadly
    is the Black Widow's Bite", voiced by Lena Headey in a British
    accent. She poses as Black Widow in order to gain the Super
    Hero Squad's trust.
-   Mystique appears in  Disk Wars: The Avengers.

Film

[200k|thumb|right|Rebecca Romijn as Mystique in the X-Men films.]

-   Mystique is played by Rebecca Romijn in the 2000 film X-Men. She
    is a member of Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutants. She reprises the
    role in the 2003 sequel, X2, where for most of the film she
    impersonates Sen. Robert Kelly, whom Magneto killed in the
    previous film. She frees Magneto from the plastic cell in which he
    is being held, and together they help the X-Men infiltrate William
    Stryker's base at Alkali Lake when they discover that he intends to
    use a duplicate Cerebro and a brainwashed Xavier to kill
    all mutants. Romijn reprises her role one more time in 2006's
    X-Men: The Last Stand. Magneto frees her, alongside Juggernaut,
    Pyro, and the Multiple Man, from a moving prison van, but when she
    dives in front of a series of shots meant for Magneto, the mutant
    cure within the ammunition turns her into a normal human, and
    Magneto abandons her as she is no longer one of them. His scorn
    leads to her revealing the location of the Brotherhood to the U.S.
    government.
-   Jennifer Lawrence portrays a younger Mystique in the 2011 prequel
    X-Men: First Class. Morgan Lily briefly plays Mystique as a child
    while Rebecca Romijn makes a cameo as a transformation Mystique
    takes to seduce Magneto. She is raised as Charles Xavier's
    foster sister, and helps found the X-Men, but eventually defects to
    Magneto as she is dissatisfied with Xavier's constant attempts to
    ask her to hide where Magneto encouraged her not to fear her
    true appearance. Lawrence reprises her role as Mystique in the 2014
    film X-Men: Days of Future Past. In the film, it was her
    assassination of Bolivar Trask that leads to his martyrdom,
    resulting in the fruition of his Sentinel program. Mystique was
    subsequently captured and experimented upon, leading to the
    Sentinels' unstoppable shapeshifting abilities and a
    dystopian future. The film revolves around Wolverine's attempts to
    stop her assassination of Trask and avert the dark future after he
    is sent back in time by Kitty Pryde projecting him into his
    younger self. The group stops Mystique's attempt to kill Trask, but
    the altercation exposes mutants to the world for the first time
    earlier than in the previous timeline, prompting President Nixon to
    approve the Sentinel program while Trask studies a blood sample
    Mystique left behind during the attack. While Trask Industries ships
    the Sentinels to Washington, D.C. for their national presentation,
    Magneto secretly surrounds the Sentinels in steel, allowing him to
    control them. He subsequently commandeers the Sentinels to attack
    the crowd and hold off Wolverine, Xavier, and McCoy, but before he
    can kill what he believes to be Nixon (really a disguised Mystique),
    McCoy suppresses his mutation with a serum causing a Sentinel to
    turn on Magneto. Magneto quickly disables it, but the distraction
    allows Mystique to shoot him with a plastic gun, wounding him and
    releasing his control of the Sentinels. After Xavier convinces
    Mystique to let Trask live, the world sees that a mutant saved the
    President and the Sentinel program is shut down. Trask is arrested
    for selling military secrets to foreign powers, erasing the
    dystopian future seen earlier in the film. Mystique remains a rogue
    agent, disguising herself as William Stryker to retrieve Wolverine
    from the Potomac River. Lawrence will be reprising her role as
    Mystique in X-Men: Apocalypse.

Video games

-   In the X-Men arcade game, she appears, first disguised as
    Professor X between stages 5 and 6. She is the boss of stage 7,
    Asteroid M, where she takes the form of Magneto; she attacks players
    with punches and kicks curiously more quickly than the real Magneto.
-   Mystique appears in the 2000 fighting game, X-Men: Mutant Academy,
    and its 2001 sequel, X-Men: Mutant Academy 2, as a
    playable character.
-   Mystique is a playable character in X-Men: Next Dimension, voiced
    by Julianne Grossman. In the game she does not utilize her
    shapeshifting abilities, relying instead on her martial arts skills
    and weaponry.
-   Mystique appears as a boss in X-Men Legends, voiced by Grey
    DeLisle.
-   Mystique appears as an NPC X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse.
    In a mission that takes place in the Savage Land where the players
    look for Destiny, Mystique helps the players fight Garokk. She has
    special dialogue with Rogue.
-   Mystique appears in 2009's movie tie-in X-Men Origins: Wolverine,
    voiced by Anna Graves. She masquerades as a CIA operative working
    with Major William Stryker's Team X.
-   Mystique appears in the Nintendo DS version of the  Super
    Hero Squad video game.
-   Mystique appears as a villain character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Mystique is available as downloadable content for the game
    LittleBigPlanet, as part of " Costume Kit 1".
-   Mystique is featured as a boss in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Mystique appears in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced by Laura
    Bailey.


Collected editions

-   Essential Ms.  Vol.1 (Ms.  Vol.1 #1-23; The Avengers
    Vol.1 Annual #10;  Super-Heroes #10-11; 512 pages, February
    2007, ISBN 0-7851-2499-3)
-   Mystique Vol.1: Dead Drop Gorgeous (Mystique #1-6; 160 pages,
    August 2004, ISBN 0-7851-1240-5)
-   Mystique Vol.2: Tinker, Tailor, Mutant, Spy (Mystique #7-13; 170
    pages, November 2004, ISBN 978-0-7851-1555-7)
-   Mystique Vol.3: Unnatural (Mystique #14-18; 120 pages, January
    2005, ISBN 0-7851-1556-0)
-   Mystique Vol.4: Quiet (Mystique #19-24; 150 pages, April 2005,
    ISBN 0-7851-1475-0)
-   Mystique By Brian K. Vaughn Ultimate Collection (Mystique #1-13;
    312 pages, May 2011, ISBN 0-7851-5511-2)
-   Mystique By Sean McKeever Ultimate Collection (Mystique #14-24;
    256 pages, June 2011, ISBN 0-7851-5521-X)
-   Wolverine: Get Mystique (Wolverine Vol.3 #62-65; 96 pages, August
    2008, ISBN 978-0-7851-2963-9)

