NEUTRON is a fictional character, an extraterrestrial superhero that
appears in comic books published by .


Publication history

Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist Dave Cockrum, the character
first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #107-109 (October 1977 – February
1978). He was not named on-panel initially.

The character next appears in Uncanny X-Men #157 (May 1982), and then
appears as QUASAR in X-Men: Spotlight on Starjammers #2 (1990). The
character subsequently appears as NEUTRON in Avengers West Coast #81
(April 1992), Quasar #32-33 (March–April 1992), #45-46 (April–May
1993), Starblast #2 (February 1994), Quasar #55 (February 1994),
Starjammers #4 (January 1996), Inhumans Vol. 4 #3-4
(August–September 2000), Uncanny X-Men #387 (December 2000),
JLA/Avengers #1 (September 2003), Thanos #10 (July 2004), and
Uncanny X-Men #477 (October 2006), and #479-480 (December 2006 –
January 2007).

Quasar appeared as part of the "Imperial Guard" entry in the Official
Handbook of the  Universe Deluxe Edition #6.


Fictional character biography

Neutron is a member of an alien race known as Stygians and a member of
the Imperial Guard, a group of super-powered alien warriors who serve
the ruler of the Shi'ar Empire.

He was with the Imperial Guard the first time they fought the X-Men. He
is a traitor who serves Lord Samedar, Deathbird, and the Brood in their
conspiracy to overthrow Shi'ar Princess-Majestrix Lilandra.

Neutron, Warstar, Hussar and Webwing are banished to Earth for their
crimes; that planet had been designated an interstellar prison as part
of the 2001 "Maximum Security" crossover event. During their stay,
Neutron and the Guard battle Jean Grey and other X-Men.

Warstar, Hussar and Neutron return to active duty with the Guard,
however Webwing has not yet been seen again. The other 3 were all seen
in the War of Kings miniseries.

Vulcan, the murderous brother of the X-Men leader Cyclops attempts to
gain power in Shi'ar space. The Guard is sent to stop him. Neutron and
his colleague Cosmo are killed by Vulcan simultaneously, two of many
Guard fatalities. A being who resembles Neutron is later shown during
the War of Kings serving Vulcan.


Powers and abilities

He possesses superhuman strength and is able to lift seventy tons. He
also possesses a high level of durability. He demonstrated the ability
to siphon energy from Quasar's constructs through physical contact,
weakening them sufficiently that his strength could easily shatter them.


Other versions

Neutron appears with other members of the Imperial Guard in Last Planet
Standing #1 (July 2006).


In other media

Neutron appears in the video game : Ultimate Alliance, voiced by
James Sie. He fights the heroes alongside Hussar on board a Shi'ar
warship.

