PHILIP BENJAMIN "PHIL" URICH is a fictional superhero character created
by . His first appearance was in Web of Spider-Man #125,
written by Gerry Conway. Once was the fourth GREEN GOBLIN, he later
became the new HOBGOBLIN as a supervillain. He was later crowned the
GOBLIN KNIGHT by the Green Goblin before replacing the Green Goblin as
the new GOBLIN KING.


Publication history

Phil Urich first appeared in Web of Spider-Man #125.


Fictional character biography

Heroic Green Goblin

Phil Urich, nephew of Ben Urich of the Daily Bugle, stumbled upon one
of Harry Osborn's old Green Goblin hideouts. Using a mask which
delivered a 'zap' that gave him Goblin-level strength without the
psychotic side-effects of the original Goblin formula, he gained
enhanced strength and endurance. He tried to gain a reputation as a
superhero following the death of Harry Osborn, son of the original Green
Goblin. However, he was sometimes seen as being as maniacal as his
villainous predecessors. His equipment was damaged during a battle
against a Sentinel in the Onslaught crossover; Phil sacrificed his
glider to destroy a Sentinel by ramming the robot in the head, but a
fragment of metal ricocheted off the explosion and damaged his mask's
circuitry. Phil was unable to repair or replace it and retired from
being the Green Goblin.

He later formed a superhero self-help group with Mickey Musashi in order
to prevent teenagers from becoming superheroes and aiding young former
superheroes get over their pasts, attempting to convince them and others
that their powers had damaged their lives. Phil suffered a mental
breakdown after watching Chris Powell and Mickey share a celebratory
kiss, having apparently convinced himself that he and Mickey had
feelings for each other when she only ever saw him as a friend. He
attacks Mickey and Chris and steals the Darkhawk amulet from Chris. The
Loners join together to fight Phil, but a depowered Phil is able to
escape with Hollow.

Villainous Hobgoblin

Phil is next seen in the "Big Time" storyline in New York helping out
his uncle at the new Front Line offices. He develops a crush on
co-worker Norah Winters, who is looking into "Goblin Gangs" for a story.
Phil goes to one of the old Goblin hideouts, hoping to find something
there to impress her with. While there he encounters Daniel Kingsley
(posing as his brother Roderick Kingsley, the original Hobgoblin) who
is also looking for some new Goblin technology. Kingsley stumbles
upon Urich and was about to kill him when Phil snapped and used his
Lunatic Laugh to incapacitate the Hobgoblin. Using the fire sword that
Kingsley had just found, Phil decapitated Kingsley and stole the new
Green Goblin equipment from Osborn's secret lair. Phil then assumes the
Hobgoblin identity for himself. Now operating as a villain, he attacks a
local think tank, and is confronted by Spider-Man. Catching the hero
off-guard with his Goblin laugh, Phil tries to decapitate him. Bella
Fishback, one of the workers at the think tank is able to disrupt the
sonic waves to save Spider-Man, but Phil is able to escape with the
Reverbium he came to steal. He delivers the metal to the Kingpin and
becomes one of his operatives. Spider-Man and Black Cat fight Phil
and the Kingpin to retrieve the experimental metal. During the fight
Phil's "Lunatic Laugh" causes the building to collapse, and he saves the
Kingpin from falling to his death.

Phil gives Norah tips about possible Hobgoblin sightings so they can
watch together in an attempt to woo her away from Randy Robertson. Phil
is jealous of Randy for dating Norah, so when Alistair Smytheâ€™s
Spider-Slayers attack the Front Line offices Phil breaks a support beam.
This, along with the damage caused by the attack, causes the ceiling to
collapse on Randy. Randy survives the collapse, but he is seriously
injured. Phil, as the Hobgoblin, fights Hercules after he defeats a
gang that works for the Kingpin. His pumpkin bombs managed to cause
debris to fall on Hercules, but he manages to escape the rubble. He then
resumes the fight as Hobgoblin films the fight with hidden cameras as he
airs the footage live. Hercules wins the fight, which ironically, boosts
his popularity instead of Phil's like he originally hoped. The Kingpin
manages to convince Hercules not to hand him over to the
authorities. Phil attacks Spider-Girl after Norah talks about how
impressive she is and he wants to show her that he, as the Hobgoblin, is
more impressive. He lures her to him by leaving a destructive path for
her to follow. As the fight ensues Spider-Girl is on the verge of
defeating him, but Spider-Man decides to intervene after seeing what she
is doing and thought that she was still too inexperienced to fight such
a powerful opponent. However, by doing this he only causes the Hobgoblin
to get away. Phil finally breaks up Randy and Norah through stalking
and a confrontation with the couple in his Hobgoblin persona. Norah then
kisses Phil shortly after, knowing exactly what to say to seduce her
unbeknownst to her, having instigated the break up. Under orders
from the Kingpin Phil teams up with Spider-Girl to fight the Sisterhood
of the Wasp during "Spider-Island". Phil infiltrates a prisoner
transport headed to The Raft to kill the Human Fly for stealing money
from the Kingpin, but Agent Venom is on the transport and they fight.
Agent Venom and Phil fight to a stalemate and the Human Fly escapes
during the fight.

During a confrontation with Spider-Man, Hobgoblin used a weapon designed
to disrupt Spider-Man's spider-sense. Although it initially appears to
have failed, Peter later realized that it had intensified his
spider-sense, causing it to react to the most minor of threats. Peter's
mental state, along with a wrongly delivered message from Madame Web,
allowed Phil to capture him while he was still dazed.

Peter later finds out that Phil and Kingpin have not discovered his
secret identity when Phil refers to Peter as "Spider-Man's best friend".
Phil and Kingpin try to get Peter to tell them who Spider-Man is but
fail. Meanwhile, Roderick Kingsley gets dressed in his old costume to go
searching for him. When Kingsley engages Phil, Max Modell gets in and
helps Peter escape. Peter, using his webshooters, breaks the disruptor
weapon and escapes. Kingpin then orders the two Hobgoblins after
him. Both Hobgoblins end up fighting Spider-Man but ultimately give up
as Roderick Kingsley decides to just kill Urich instead. He ends up
changing his mind at the last moment though, letting him stay as
Hobgoblin, but only if he gives Kingsley a cut of the profits he makes.
Phil reluctantly agrees to the arrangement but quickly begins to
conspire to kill Kingsley so that he will no longer be in his way.
When Mayor J. Jonah Jameson announces an effort to crackdown on
supervillains Phil debates if it is still worthwhile to be Hobgoblin
because he pays so much to the Tinkerer for his Hobgoblin gear and to
Kingsley for being allowed to be Hobgoblin.

Goblin Knight

When Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Spider-Man's body)
raids Shadowland, Hobgoblin is left to fend for himself while Kingpin
escapes. Hobgoblin escapes and encounters Spider-Bots which do not
detect him. Following the assault on Shadowland, Hobgoblin goes to
Tinkerer and request that he do some immediate upgrades to his gear in
order to survive Superior Spider-Man's aggressive campaign. Tiberius
Stone (in hiding under the Tinkerer) does the upgrades, planning revenge
for Hobgoblin's ruining him while working for Kingpin. Superior
Spider-Man notes Hobgoblin escaped without alerting his Spider-Bot
sensor net, upping his hunt for him. Green Goblin turns off the Goblin
Protocol hack in the Web-Net so Hobgoblin can be found and eliminated.
Superior Spider-Man finally confronts Hobgoblin whose tech fails as a
result of Tiberius Stone's revenge. He escapes, but not before Superior
Spider-Man manages to put tracers deep enough into Phil's skin to hear
his name over the transmitters. He then publicly reveals Phil as
Hobgoblin at the Daily Bugle. Phil sees the feeds and realizes that he
has nowhere to run anymore. With his identity as Hobgoblin revealed
to the public, Phil desperately makes excuses as his Daily Bugle
co-workers turn against him. Superior Spider-Man learns of Phil's
location and arrives at the Daily Bugle and fights with an unstable Phil
bringing the fight outside where Superior Spider-Man disarms him. He
seems to consider giving Phil a public execution, but Phil is freed from
a prison transport by Menace and brought to Green Goblin who upgrades
his armor and weapons. The Goblin King asks only for full dedication to
Phil's only identity from here on as the GOBLIN KNIGHT. Goblin King
trains Goblin Knight who has become anxious to jump into action against
Superior Spider-Man. Goblin King reprimands Goblin Knight that it was
his fault that he had to shut down his Goblin Protocols to avoid being
detected by Superior Spider-Man. Goblin King states that Goblin Knight
has given him an idea. When Monster and Menace attack Roderick
Kingsley's henchmen Ringer, Steeplejack, and Tumbler, Goblin Knight ends
up killing Steeplejack. Goblin Knight (alongside some other Goblin
Knights) was with the Goblin King during a showdown with Hobgoblin which
ended with Hobgoblin death at the hands of Goblin King. Later on, Goblin
Knight checked the body to see if it was Roderick Kingsley underneath
the mask. He finds that its actually Roderick Kingsley's butler Claude
who died. Goblin Knight then destroys the body to ensure Goblin King
never suspects that Kingsley is still alive. Learning of his
nephew's identity, Ben Urich attempted to arrange a meeting to talk Phil
down and convince him to accept a cure for the Goblin formula. But when
Robbie Robertson was discovered in the area, Phil believed that Ben had
been trying to set a trap and delivered a serious injury to Robbie
before Spider-Man appeared. Phil was able to get away when Ben convinced
Superior Spider-Man to take Robbie to hospital, but Ben made it clear
that he had no interest in protecting Phil accepting that Phil liked
what he had become and was uninterested in redemption or help.

Goblin King

Following the conclusion of The Superior Spider-Man storyline
returning the true Spider-Man, Phil Urich is now leading the remnants of
the Goblin Nation as the self-proclaimed GOBLIN KING. Goblin King meets
with Mister Negative where they are awaiting for Eel to show up in order
to divide the criminal underground following Norman Osborn's defeat. The
meeting is crashed by Black Cat and Electro. Black Cat mentions to
Goblin King and Mister Negative about how Spider-Man had outed them and
wants a share in their plans.

During the AXIS storyline, Goblin King attempts to rescue Lily
Hollister from a police transport until it goes horribly awry where Lily
is rendered amnesiac. When Goblin King confronted Roderick Kingsley
in his headquarters, Queen Cat came to his defense. Goblin King
recognized Lily Hollister as Queen Cat, but she did not recognize him.
Following the attack, Missile Mate was convinced by Urich's claims that
the Hobgoblin would soon abandon the heroes he had trained. Missile Mate
went to the Goblin Nation's headquarters and asked Goblin King to join
him to be a supervillain. Goblin King was reluctant, but Missile Mate
soon showed him that he had also gathered to join his cause all the
supervillains that Hobgoblin had "abandoned" (consisting of 8-Ball III,
Killer Shrike II, Melter III, Tiger Shark II, and Unicorn IV) after
becoming a good guy. When the celebration of a Hobgoblin Day was
being held with a parade in Roderick Kingsley's honor, Missile Mate
betrayed Hobgoblin and attempted to murder him in the name of the Goblin
King. Roderick had already expected the betrayal and had been using a
hologram decoy which took Missile Mate's blow. As soon as Roderick
Kinglsey confronted Missile Mate, the Goblin King appeared with his
Goblin Nation and attacked the celebration. Hobgoblin bested Goblin King
in combat and left him and the Goblin Nation members with him for the
authorities.


Powers and abilities

As Green Goblin

Due to ingestion of a modified version of Norman Osborn's "Goblin
Formula", Phil Urich gained superhuman strength (able to lift upwards of
9 tons), stamina, durability, speed, and reflexes. However, he was
unable to access these abilities without the unknown catalyst provided
by the Green Goblin mask he wore. He also possessed a so-called "Lunatic
Laugh" capable of creating sound waves disorienting to most people. It
seems possible that the formula had also increased his intelligence
since he had shown to have an unusual cleverness when it came to
strategy and modifying his equipment, as the Goblin formula had done for
other users such as Roderick Kingsley and Norman Osborn. Whether or
not he needed the mask for this was unknown.

As Green Goblin, Phil wore an alternate/spare Green Goblin costume
composed of a chain-mail mesh capable of deflecting small arms fire. He
traveled on a bat-shaped, one-man, rocket-propelled "Goblin Glider".
Like other Goblins' gliders, it was armed with heat-seeking missiles,
machine guns, and retractable blades. Other weapons Phil typically used
were incendiary Pumpkin Bombs capable of melting through of steel, smoke
and gas-emitting bombs with an appearance like a ghost, razor-edged
bat-shaped boomerangs and gloves woven with micro-circuited filaments
which channel pulsed discharges of electricity capable of discharging
nearly 1,000 volts of electricity. Most of this equipment was
completely destroyed or rendered inoperable during Phil's final battle
with the Sentinel.

As Hobgoblin

As the Hobgoblin, Phil Urich wears an orange Hobgoblin costume with
wings on the back that allow him to fly without the use of a Goblin
Glider and he took Kingsley's mask as his own. He uses the traditional
Pumpkin Bombs all Green Goblins and Hobgoblins before him have used, but
he also has a new flaming sword. He still retains his "Lunatic
Laugh" from when he was Green Goblin. For unknown reasons, he no longer
needs his mask to activate this power. With the help of Reverbium, his
"Lunatic Laugh" was able to cause a building to collapse.


Other versions

MC2

In the MC2 timeline, Phil Urich marries his girlfriend Meredith and
becomes a forensic scientist and friends with Peter Parker. He is aware
of both Peter and Spider-Girl's identities. Phil Urich resumes the
Goblin identity, first under the name of the Golden Goblin, then as the
Green Goblin with the assistance of Normie Osborn. After Phil lost a
long series of battles, Normie recreates Phil's original mask, which
grants him superhuman strength and other abilities, greatly enhancing
his effectiveness. He is also a founding member of the New New Warriors.


While Phil originally required the technology in the Goblin mask to
enhance his physical abilities and no longer has access to it, he
retained one power that he is able to activate without the mask. Phil is
capable of using his laughter as a sonic weapon of sorts. His "lunatic
laugh" has been shown to disorient opponents and even shatter their
eardrums. He once used the laugh while out of costume to defeat the
Venom symbiote after it had taken possession of Peter.


In other media

The Phil Urich incarnation of Hobgoblin was added to the superhero
tabletop game Heroclix in 2013.

