PUMA (THOMAS FIREHEART) is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by . The character is depicted as
being most closely associated with Spider-Man. While originally a
villain, he gained a great respect for Spider-Man and became his
occasional ally.


Publication history

Puma first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #256 and was created by
Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz. The inspiration for the character comes from
safari cards bought by Tom DeFalco.

In the Puma's earliest appearances, he acted as a mercenary, and an
antagonist to Spider-Man, but soon came to respect him. Puma was then
depicted as an ally of Spider-Man, assisting him from time to time in
his appearances in the The Spectacular Spider-Man series. He was
associated with the superhero team known as the Outlaws for a time, and
was later one of the main characters in the MODOK's 11 limited series.


Fictional character biography

Puma's real name is THOMAS FIREHEART, and he is of Native American
descent. The tribe he belongs to (located near Hartsdale, New Mexico;
 Westerns: Western Legends suggests that the tribe may be the
Kisani, as one of Puma's ancestors belonged to that tribe and lived at
Lost Mesa) has had an ancient prophecy of the coming of a powerful being
who might destroy the world for generations. Long ago, they began making
preparations for this coming doom. They used mystic ceremonies and
selective breeding to create a perfect warrior. Thomas Fireheart is the
latest in this line of men. Though he never believed in the prophecy, he
took his duties as protector of his tribe seriously, and has strived his
whole life to be the best he could be, mastering his ability to turn
into a powerful humanoid mountain lion werecat. He also trained in
Martial Arts in Japan under a man named Master Muramoto.

Very intelligent, and with a good business sense, he became owner and
CEO of Fireheart Enterprises. Headquartered near his tribe in Hartsdale,
Arizona, it is a multinational corporation involved in many different
endeavors, with regional offices around the world. Becoming bored with
corporate life, he began to seek greater challenges, and offered his
skills as Puma for sale.

He was operating as a mercenary and had been hired by the Rose to kill
Spider-Man, but was thwarted by the Black Cat. He again attempted to
attack Spider-Man, but changed his mind and departed when he witnessed
Spider-Man saving innocent bystanders.

Puma later confronted the Beyonder in New York; however, the Beyonder
simply transported him to downtown Tokyo. Puma became enraged at the
death of Master Muramoto as the inadvertent result of the Beyonder's
actions. Puma reached a state of "harmonious enlightenment with the
universe" and was imbued with immeasurable power. However, doubting his
own senses, Puma lost the mystical power just as he attacked the
Beyonder. Puma was able to learn Spider-Man's secret identity, Peter
Parker, thanks to his enhanced senses, and now felt he owed him a debt
of honor as a result of the Beyonder affair. He offered Peter Parker a
job at his company while Peter was on his honeymoon in France; however,
Peter declined the offer. Puma later attempted to clear Spider-Man's
name of a crime he didn't commit, and first encountered Silver Sable and
The Outlaws.

When the mutant powers of Charles Little Sky, a kinsman of Fireheart's
(and the man later known as Portal), first manifested, Fireheart tried
to help his fellow tribesman better understand his powers. Rejecting
Fireheart's offers of aid, Portal fled to Ellis Island where Fireheart
caught up to him. When Portal's powers activated again and returned the
U-Foes to Earth, Fireheart was forced to team up with the Avengers as
Puma to protect Little Sky, helping to defeat the villains.

Puma then battled Spider-Man in New York. Fireheart actually
purchased 51% of the Daily Bugle, made Robbie Robertson publisher, and
began a pro-Spider-Man campaign in the publication, in an attempt to pay
off his debt of honor. During this time, he was nearly killed in an
attack by the Hobgoblin, but was saved by Spider-Man.

Fireheart agreed to join Spider-Man's rag-tag superhero group called the
Outlaws, along with several other Spider-Man adversaries-turn-allies
(including Sandman, Rocket Racer, and the Prowler). The group clashed
with the Avengers, until it was revealed that both groups were actually
being manipulated by the shape-changing Space Phantom, whom Thomas
exposed and defeated.

He eventually sold the Daily Bugle back to J. Jonah Jameson for $1,
and he and Spider-Man settled their debt of honor on a vision quest in
New Mexico.

Fireheart's Puma persona later consumed him, and he attempted to
assassinate a US Senator. Spider-Man stopped him, but not before the
NYPD shot Fireheart several times. The Black Crow cast a magical spell
removing all knowledge of Spider-Man's secret identity from Fireheart's
mind. He was nursed back to mental and physical health by another
character named Nocturne (not the Exiles character Nocturne).

Puma was seen in the Bloodsport competition. He made it to the
semi-final round, but was defeated by Wolverine.

He was next seen teaming up with Spider-Man and the Black Cat to stop
Stegron from "de-evolving" the population of New York. After this
Puma began a relationship with the Black Cat (as shown they were both in
bed) although he notices Felicia may still have feelings for Peter
Parker.

Civil War/The Initiative

After the events of Civil War, he was seen helping Spider-Man escort
Prowler out of the Bar With No Name. He has also been seen helping
Black Cat from the sidelines. She has decided to help Peter Parker, who
is on the run after the events of the Civil War. Together, Puma and
Black Cat neutralize the drunken rampage of the Rhino, mostly through
sheer bluffing. Puma also attended training at Camp Hammond.

Fireheart was then accused of federal bribery (which so far appears to
be a frame job) and his assets frozen; forbidden by his tribe from
taking any contract kills, he has joined MODOK's 11 to get the cash he
needs to defend himself in court. However, this meant disobeying the
tribal council's order to remain on the reservation and so he's had his
puma powers stripped from him, leaving him a regular human right in the
middle of the mission. When deciding to rescue the Living Laser, who had
earlier saved his life, he had an epiphany that defending one's own
people is what the Puma Totem is meant to do, and he regained his powers
in the process. Or so he thinks â€” actually Deadly Nightshade had
secretly injected him with "werewolf serum". Puma has gained his cash
from MODOK and has taken up an offer from Nightshade to help his legal
defense; any long-term effects from the serum are unknown.


Powers and abilities

Puma possesses a number of superhuman attributes that are a result of a
combination of genetic engineering and mysticism. Thomas Fireheart is
the latest in a line of Native Americans that were specially matched and
bred to produce a perfect human being. That genetic manipulation was
enhanced by an unknown supernatural process through which his tribe
endowed him with magical abilities.

Fireheart undergoes a physical transformation through intense
concentration that includes an increase in his height and weight, his
body becoming covered with a fine tan fur, and razor sharp fangs and
claws.

Transformation into this form also grants Fireheart superhuman physical
attributes of catlike strength, speed, intelligence, agility,
durability, flexibility, reflexes/reactions, coordination, balance and
endurance, like his namesake.

Puma also possesses superhumanly acute senses. His sense of touch is
enhanced to the extent that he is able to feel the impressions of ink on
a piece of paper. His vision and hearing are enhanced in a similar
manner, enabling him to both see and hear sights and sounds that
ordinary humans can't and to see and hear at much greater distances.
Puma also possesses a superhumanly acute sense of smell that he uses to
track a target by scent.

He is also an extraordinary hand-to-hand combatant, having received
training in numerous martial arts disciplines, especially in the martial
arts used by Master Muramoto. As head of Fireheart Enterprises, Puma has
access to highly advanced technology as well as a personal staff of
trained investigators that often provide him information on enemies and
potential enemies. In his identity as Thomas Fireheart, Puma is a very
wealthy, skilled and respected businessman, with a master's degree in
Business Administration. He has a personal customized Lear jet for
long-distance travel.

While some of Puma's activities are morally dubious, he is not truly
evil and is not a criminal. His primary concerns are his own personal
advancement and the welfare of his people, and he has come to
Spider-Man's aid as often as he has tried to harm him.


Other versions

Earth-001

On Earth-001 during the Spider-Verse storyline, Fireheart (a character
that resembles Puma) is a member of the Hounds who are servants of Verna
of the Inheritors. He accompanies Verna and the other Hounds when they
head to Earth-1610 to hunt Miles Morales. He is killed by the
Superior Spider-Man, and his allies Spider-Punk and Assassin
Spider-Man.


In other media

Video games

-   Puma appeared in the Game Boy Advance & PC versions of the
    Spider-Man 2 game, and voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. He lured
    Spider-Man into a trap at his warehouse by having Mary Jane Watson's
    car stolen. Spider-Man fought through Puma's cronies until he
    confronted him in a small room where the two briefly fought. Puma
    then took the fight outside on the rooftops by busting through the
    glass window of the room, and after fighting on three roofs,
    Spider-Man chased Puma at a water fountain. Their fight brought them
    to a construction site where Spider-Man chased down Puma throughout
    the site until they ended up in a cage, where Puma reluctantly
    surrendered in the fight after much beating. But he gleefully tells
    Spider-Man that he was merely a distraction so that Doc Ock would
    kidnap Mary Jane. Puma tries to get away again, but Spider-Man webs
    him up against a girder and finally defeats the villain.

