QUILL (or in one case, QUILLS) has been the name of four different
fictional comic book characters appearing in American comic books
published by .


Quill (Warpie)

The Warpie known as Quill first appeared in Captain Britain, vol. 2 #7
and was created by Jamie Delano and Alan Davis.

Fictional character biography

Quill is one of the Warpies, a group of superhumans created by the
Jaspers' Warp. Quill and his fellow Warpies were taken in by the British
government organization, the Resources Control Executive (the R.C.X.).
Quill and several of the Warpies were trained for combat and formed the
CHERUBIM. Quill was their leader and they attacked Captain Britain, but
were later taken in by him and his sister Elizabeth Braddock.

The Warpies were later abducted by the new R.C.X. and again came into
conflict with Captain Britain, who was now part of Excalibur. The
Warpies were all slowly turning into humans, but the new R.C.X. had told
them that they were dying. Excalibur uncovered the truth and told the
Warpies. They also freed the original leaders of the R.C.X. and left the
Warpies in their care.

The Warpies were again abducted shortly afterwards by Black Air, another
government organisation. Black Air experimented upon the Warpies in an
attempt to keep them superhuman. Their experiments succeeded, but the
Warpies were saved by Mastermind who made them his soldiers. Quill was
one of his most loyal soldiers. Under Mastermind's leadership, the
Warpies attacked and destroyed most of the Captain Britain Corps. They
were defeated by Captain Britain, who then used his new powers to turn
the Warpies, including Quill, into regular humans.

Powers and abilities

Quill's body is covered in barbs and he had razorsharp claws.


Quill (Resistants)

A mutant using the code name Quill first appeared in Captain America,
vol. 1 #343. He was created by Mark Gruenwald and Kieron Dwyer.

Fictional character biography

Quill was a mutant, born in Cleveland, Ohio. He was captured and
arrested by the sixth Captain America and Battle Star on behalf of the
government for failing to comply with the Mutant Registration Act, but
was freed by the subversive terrorist mutant rights activists known as
the Resistants. Becoming a member of the Resistants, he later joined
them in freeing Mentallo from the authorities. Under the influence of
a device created by a Doctor Doom robot, Quill was one of many criminals
that was compelled to join the Plantman in attacking the Fantastic Four
at a Congressional hearing during the Acts of Vengeance. Quill became
entangled in the Plantman's vines and was defeated, captured, and taken
to the Vault.

Quill was confirmed as depowered during M-day.

Powers and abilities

Quill is a mutant who could shoot razor sharp needles from his body at
will. These quills would then be regrown by his body. Quill has claimed
that he was not born a mutant, but was mutated by an accident. This
would seem to be disproven by his being listed as a depowered mutant
after M-day.

As a member of the Resistants, Quill's helmet contained miniaturized
radio equipment enabling him to communicate with his similarly outfitted
teammates.


Quills (Arena)

Quills was a female fighter in the mutant fight club known as the Arena.
She appeared in X-Treme X-Men #39 and was created by Chris Claremont
and Igor Kordey.

Powers and abilities

Quills was covered with razor sharp needles, which she could shoot from
her body.

{{-}}


Quill (Max Jordan)

QUILL (MAX JORDAN) is a fictional character, a mutant appearing in comic
books published by . One of the students at the Xavier
Institute, he first appeared in New X-Men: Academy X #1 and was
created by Nunzio DeFilippis and Christina Weir. When the students were
each assigned to squads, Quill was assigned to Cyclops's Corsairs
training squad, a group named after Cyclops's father, Corsair. (See
Xavier Institute student body for a lineup of the Corsairs squad.) Quill
was voted class clown by the students of the Institute.

Max was caught trying to steal test answers from the headmasterâ€™s
office. Kitty Pryde assigned him and his accomplices, George and
Winston, to be mentored by Gambit, but instead of making them see the
error of their ways, Gambit taught the boys some real thieving
techniques.

He is killed during William Stryker's attack on the Xavier Institute in
the wake of M-Day. His body was seen in a telepathic image Emma
Frost used to torment Carol Danvers about her persistence with the
Registration Act.

Powers and abilities

Max's body is covered in porcupine-like quills that can shoot from his
body.

Other versions

-   In the "House of M" storyline, Max appears as part of the SHIELD
    Hellions squad students.

{{-}}


In other media

Film

-   A similar character appears in X-Men: The Last Stand played by Ken
    Leung. While the character is credited as KID OMEGA, he is referred
    to as "Quill" in the Writer/Director Commentary. He appears as a
    member of The Omegas, then later joins Magneto's Brotherhood of Evil
    Mutants with Callisto, Arclight, and Psylocke. During the attack on
    Alcatrax, Quill kills Dr. Kavita Rao and almost kills Dr.
    Worthington whose son Warren saves him. Quill, Psylocke and Arclight
    are later killed by Jean Grey's Phoenix Force powers.

