THORNN (LUCIA CALLASANTOS) is a fictional character created by 
Comics for their series, X-Force. She was one of the few Morlocks to
survive the Mutant Massacre and is the sister of former X-Force member,
Feral. Both had been depowered in the wake of M-Day, however, both have
returned to their mutant forms (albeit without powers).


Fictional character biography

Thornn made her first appearance in X-Force (vol.1) #6 as a member of
the Morlocks under the leadership of Masque. Toad, then the leader of
the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, was trying to form an alliance with the
group of social outcasts, and it was Thornn's vote that swayed the
opinion of the Morlocks. If they wanted to get what was theirs by right,
then they needed to take it by force. Their first course of action would
be to go after the defected Morlock, Feral. They are soundly defeated
and Thornn is returned to the Morlocks with a warning from Cable to
never mess with X-Force again.

Later when Mikhail Rasputin flooded the Morlock Tunnels, Thornn again
was one of the few survivors. She attempted to save a young Marrow, but
wasn't able to hold on to her with the rushing waters. Thornn was
distraught and continued to search the tunnels for survivors, having no
luck because Mikhail had transported a number of the Morlocks to a
parallel dimension called the Hill. Running out of options, she
contacted Cable and Domino to help her perform a ritual called the
Ceremony of Lightsâ€”a practice where light illuminates the Alley by a
series of cleverly placed mirrors and glass shards. When the Alley was
illuminated the young form of Marrow appeared through dimensional walls
to let Thornn know that there were Morlocks who had survived but they
were too scared to come out of hiding.

[Cover to X-Force #40 showing Shatterstar, Rictor, and Thornn (right)]
Thornn also aided X-Force in the capture of her rogue sister on one
occasion. During this episode, it was revealed that Feral had killed
several members of their family, including their stepfather, mother, and
little brother (never proven but strongly implied). It was also made
known that their stepfather had sexually molested both of the sisters.

Next, Thornn made an unexpected alliance with Charles Xavier and joined
the Mumbai branch of X-Corporation along with her sister, former X-Force
member Warpath, and Sunfire. The team helped save Professor X from an
assassination attempt by a crazed Lilandra Neramani, who still believed
that Charles Xavier was Cassandra Nova.

She appears later, after the incident known as M-Day, where the Scarlet
Witch caused the mutant gene to disappear from 90-95% of the mutant
population worldwide, making them "baseline humans". Both Thornn and her
sister were shown to be depowered.

Thornn recently appeared alongside her sister, Sasquatch and Wolfsbane
in Wakanda offering their assistance to Wolverine against Sabretooth.
Both Thornn and Feral were mysteriously returned to their powered forms,
with no memory as to how this occurred. While Wolverine searches for
answers inside the Weapon X facility, Thornn and her allies are attacked
and critically wounded by Sabretooth and Wild Child. Feral was
subsequently murdered by Sabretooth.

With Feral dead, Wolfsbane speculates that the sisters had never
regained their powers, rather, they had simply been returned to their
animalistic forms. Wolverine took this as fact, as it explained how
Feral was defeated by Sabretooth so easily. The enigmatic Romulus had
the genetic skills to revert the sisters to their mutant forms.


Powers and abilities

Formerly had a feline mutation that endowed her with a thin layer of
orange and white fur covering her body, sharp claws and fangs, pointed
ears, enhanced senses, night vision, strength, speed, agility, reflexes,
coordination, balance, endurance and healing ability as well as a
prehensile tail. Depowered during M-Day.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the follow-up limited series to Age of Apocalypse, Thornn was shown
as a member of the Morlocks.

