WARSTAR is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by .


Fictional character biography

Warstar is a warrior serving in the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial
Guard. Warstar is actually two symbiotically linked sentient mechanoids,
a small one named B'nee who can generate electricity and a large one
named Câ€™cil who is gigantic and immensely strong and durable. B'nee
rides on C'cil's back.

Warstar joined in the Imperial Guard's trial by combat with the X-Men to
decide the fate of the Phoenix. Warstar was then a traitor who served
Lord Samedar, Deathbird, and the Brood in their conspiracy to overthrow
Shi'ar Princess-Majestrix Lilandra, and battled the X-Men. On
Deathbird's behalf, Warstar battled Ch'od of the Starjammers. Warstar
was later back with the Imperial Guard, which was now serving Deathbird;
he was defeated along with the other Imperial Guardsmen by the X-Men and
Starjammers.

During Operation Galactic Storm, Warstar fought Captain America in
Arizona in an attempt to abduct Rick Jones. Warstar battled Captain
America, Iron Man, and Wonder Man during the Kree-Shi'ar War. Warstar
was defeated by Gilgamesh and She-Hulk. Alongside the Imperial Guard,
Warstar then confronted Quasar.

Warstar and fellow Guardsmen Hussar, Neutron, and Webwing were
discharged (for complicity in Deathbird's coup, after Lilandra was
restored to the throne) and sent to Earth, which had been turned into an
intergalactic prison planet in the Maximum Security crossover. The
quartet joined with a rogue D'Bari in an attack on several X-Men, but
were ultimately defeated. When the Maximum Security storyline resolved,
all alien prisoners were removed from Earth,  and Warstar and
certain others exiled to Earth have since been seen among the Imperial
Guard again.

Warstar was ripped in half when the Guard fought for their new emperor
Vulcan against the X-Men and Starjammers, but Warstar survived and were
carried away by their fellow Guardsmen.

During the war between Vulcan's regime and the Inhuman-ruled Kree
Empire, Warstar was seen menacing Nova Corps Centurions on the Kree
planet Kaiphas, but was stopped by Nova Prime Richard Rider. Both B'nee
and C'cil were apparently decapitated by the Nova Prime, with B'nee's
head completely missing and C'cil's reduced to a smoking mass.


Beany and Cecil

They are named for the puppets Beany and Cecil. In West Coast Avengers
#80 (part two of Operation: Galactic Storm), Iron Man sarcastically
asks if they come from a moon called "Leakin' Luna", referring to the
Leakin' Lena in the Beany and Cecil series.


Powers and abilities

Warstar is actually a mechanoid symbiote of two separate beings, B'nee
and C'cil. B'nee rides in a cavity on C'cil's back. B'nee and C'cil
appear to communicate through a means that may be telepathic. B'nee and
C'cil are empathically linked so that when B'nee feels pain, so does
C'cil. Due to his low intellect, C'cil relies on B'nee to guide him in
combat. B'nee can electrically shock an opponent with his touch, and
C'cil possesses superhuman strength and durability.

Warstar is trained in armed and unarmed combat by the Shi'ar Imperial
Guard, and uses a small Imperial Guard anti-gravity device which allows
flight.


In other media

Television

-   In the X-Men TV series, Warstar appears in The Phoenix Saga and
    The Dark Phoenix Saga alongside the rest of the Imperial Guard.

Video games

-   Warstar appears in : Ultimate Alliance. He appears on the
    Shi'ar warship and fights the heroes alongside Starbolt. A
    simulation disk has Wolverine trying to prevent Warstar from blowing
    up the S.H.I.E.L.D. Omega base. He doesn't speak when he fights
    alongside Starbolt, but speaks during Wolverine's simulation disk
    (where he is voiced by John Cygan).


Inspiration

Several of the members of the Imperial Guard are at least partly based
on members of the  team Legion of Super-Heroes. (Dave Cockrum,
co-creator of the Guard, also had a long run as artist on the Legion.)
While Warstar does not seem to have a true analogue in the LSH, he may
be inspired by LSH member Duo Damsel, who could split herself in two.

