Celsius is the superhero alias of ARANI DESAI, a fictional character in
the  series, Doom Patrol. She first appeared in Showcase
#94 (September 1977), and was created by Paul Kupperberg and Joe Staton.
She is among the very few superheroes of South Asian heritage, and may
be the first ever such hero created by .


Fictional character biography

The following account is the result of a mind probe on Arani by General
Immortus (Showcase #95, Octoberâ€“November 1977), Arani Desai was born
in India into a life of wealth and privilege. Due to the death of her
mother while giving birth to Arani, her father Ashok rejected her even
though she possessed an excellent intellect and athleticism. Arani ran
away from home after her father went insane. Life on the streets in
Calcutta made her deathly ill until she was rescued by young American
Dr. Niles Caulder. He gave her immortality on their wedding and left her
in the Himalayas while he tried to evade General Immortus. Arani waited
and realized that the serum augmented her powerfully, so that she could
control her core temperature and project quantities of heat and cold.
This ability coupled with the mysticism and monastery training made her
a formidable martial artist.

Doom Patrol

Discovering the death of the Doom Patrol, she created her own team
initially to search for her husband, whom she refused to believe
perished with the rest of the original Patrol in an explosion. Cliff
Steele had survived by virtue of his mechanical nature as Robotman (just
enough of his body had been left intact, including his head, to keep his
brain alive, and he was found by Will Magnus who built him a new form),
and upon returning to Doom Patrol headquarters, found the new team
holding a meeting there. They were interrupted and captured by Immortus,
who momentarily restored his youth by using the mind-probe on Arani to
get the immortality formula from her. As the treatment she had been
given was prepared specifically for her metabolism, it soon backfired on
him. [Kalki from Doom Patrol vol. 2 #3, art by Steve Lightle]

Kalki

During her leadership of the Doom Patrol, they discovered Larry Trainor
had inexplicably also survived the explosion, as well as the loss of his
radio-energy being to Soviet defector Valentina Vostok (herself a member
of the new DP as Negative Woman), and was a hostage of Arani's now
demonically controlled father Ashok Desai, renamed Kalki. Like the
terrorist known as Kobra, Ashok believed it was his destiny to bring
about the Kali Yuga. Ashok Desai had originally worked with Niles
Caulder to develop the immortality serum that Caulder would later
perfect and use on Arani. Ashok tested an early version of the mutagenic
serum on himself. The formula triggered his metagene, and mutated his
body, driving him insane. He was transformed into a living portal to a
nether dimension that he believed was "hell".

He and Caulder devised a suit of armor to contain his deteriorating body
and to control the dimensional portal. Kalki had set up a hidden base on
the island of Jamaica from which he intended to launch a satellite
designed to eliminate all life on Earth. Kalki died when Celsius damaged
his armor, causing the "demons" on the other side of its portal to turn
on him; they were then able to drag his body through to the other side.

Celsius was the only member left fighting against an evil Lord of Chaos,
hand in hand with Power Girl. Her Arctic-cold blast exploded the
superheated Metallo after he managed to control Robotman's actions to
battle Superman. Arani later discovered that Niles Caulder was, as she
had believed, still alive, and that Vostok had become a covert operative
for the United States government.

Invasion

When Niles came out of hiding, he declared they were never married,
although he did know her, then declared that Arani was "hoplessly
insane" for believing so, although he would later retract that
statement. He admitted to experimenting on her with his immortality
serum. Arani was seemingly killed in a suicidal attempt to freeze a
Gil'Dishpan battle cruiser from escaping the Arctic Circle during the
Invasion!_ crossover. Celsius remained behind when she realized that
the aliens were seeking to escape the surprise attack. When other Doom
Patrol members begged her to get away she flatly refused, stating that
"Niles knows the truth" while engulfing the rear of the ship in tons of
ice. As the fusion engines erupted with power, the force blew back at
her point blank. Aquaman realized that the backlash created by Celsius
coupled with the bombs did indeed cripple the interstellar ship.
Tragically, Celsius became the first heroic casualty in the invasion.
The Patrol buried her remains, but the Gene Bomb went off at her
funeral.

Niles Caulder later revealed that he married Arani for her own
protection as a single woman in India, but that he abandoned her
immediately after the ceremony.

Blackest Night

Celsius is one of four Doom Patrol members reanimated as Black Lanterns
whom the Doom Patrol must deal with in the Blackest Night tie-in
storyline. She confronts her ex-husband and proceeds to taunt him
emotionally, then super freeze and shatter his paralyzed legs. She is
prevented from killing Caulder by a man with a black hole for a face,
and is sent away from Oolong island, along with her fellow Black
Lanterns, via a warp gate.

New 52

In the New 52 reboot (2011) Celsius first appeared in Justice League
vol.2 #24, along with Negative Woman and Tempest being watched by
Grid. Then in Justice League vol.2 #27 she is mentioned by Scorch
and Karma, and then presumably killed off by Johnny Quick and
Atomica. But in Justice League vol.2 #34 Lex Luthor tells The Chief
that she and Tempest have faked their own deaths to escape from him and
the Doom Patrol.


Powers and abilities

Celsius is a superior martial artist due to her monastery training. She
has minor levels of ancient mysticism taught to her due to her monastery
training in the Himalayas by Buddhist monks. These same Buddhist monks
taught Arani to control and manipulate her core temperature, projecting
formidable heat to a volcanic level from her left hand or intense cold
and ice to an arctic level from her right hand after Niles Caulder's
immortality serum triggered her metagene. Celsius was even seen to
casually hold a Government helicopter aloft due to a power blast of
superheated steam. Due to the secret longevity serum given to her by
Niles Caulder instead of General Immortus, she was supposedly to remain
young and beautiful forever as an immortal. The combination of her
natural athletic prowess, intelligence, martial arts and thermal duality
made Celsius one of the most formidable, dynamic martial artists in the
 Universe. She now has a Black power ring because of her resurrection
and can do anything a Black Lantern can do combined with her natural
thermal powers.

