CYBORG is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character was created by writer Marv Wolfman
and artist George PÃ©rez and first appears in a special insert in 
Comics Presents #26 (October 1980). Cyborg is best known as a member of
the Teen Titans. However, in September 2011, Cyborg was established
as a founding member of the Justice League as part of 's 2011 reboot
of its continuity.

Cyborg appears in the  Extended Universe, where he is played by actor
Ray Fisher. This adaptation of the character had a cameo appearance in
the 2016 film Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice and is set to appear
in a standalone Cyborg film in 2020, as well as the two-part Justice
League film.


Fictional character biography

VICTOR "VIC" STONE is the son of Silas Stone and Elinore Stone,
scientists who use him as a test subject for various intelligence
enhancement projects. While these treatments worked and Victor's IQ
grows to genius levels, he grows to resent this treatment. He strikes up
a friendship with Ron Evers, a young miscreant who leads him into
trouble with the law. This is the beginning of a struggle in which
Victor strives for independence, engaging in pursuits of which his
parents disapprove, such as athletics, and abandoning his scholastic
studies. Victor's association with underage criminals leads him down a
dark path in which he is often injured, but he still lives a "normal"
life in which he is able to make his own decisions. He occasionally
refuses to participate in Evers' grandiose plans of racially motivated
terrorism.

[Cyborg|250px|left|thumb|Victor Stone's horrified reaction to his
prosthetics.] When he visits his parents at work at S.T.A.R. Labs, an
experiment with an inter-dimensional portal goes horribly wrong and a
massive gelatinous monster kills Elinore. The creature turns on Victor
and severely mutilates him before Silas forces the creature back through
the portal.

To save his son, Silas outfits him with experimental prosthetics of his
own design. The equipment can not be worn inconspicuously, and Victor is
horrified upon discovering that most of his body and part of his face
have been replaced with metallic implants. Victor initially wants to
die, but he eventually adjusts to the changes and learns to control his
implants.

Victor finds that reintegration into society is very difficult, due to
the fearful reactions by others to his jarring appearance. Even his
girlfriend, Marcy Reynolds, rejects him. He is disallowed further
participation in athletics, both for the unfair advantage provided by
his cybernetics and because of his poor scholastic record. When Evers
attempts to manipulate Victor into participating in a terrorist attack
on the United Nations, Victor finds new purpose as he equips his weapons
attachments and stops his former friend in a pitched battle on top of
United Nations Headquarters.

Teen Titans

Vic joins the Teen Titans, initially for the benefit of a support group
of kindred spirits and freaks and has remained with that group ever
since.  In addition, Victor finds new friends, who see past his
disfigurements and instead see his own nobility. His team mates are like
a group of juveniles who are adjusting to their own prosthetics for they
idolize him because of his fancy parts and his exciting adventures. It
also turns out that their beautiful teacher Sarah Simms, who has often
assisted Cyborg and the Titans, admires him as well. Cyborg and Sarah
have a deep relationship that is considered by some fans to be Cyborg's
one true love, although writer Marv Wolfman insists it is a deep and
caring friendship.

Another person who sees past the cybernetic shell is Dr. Sarah Charles,
a S.T.A.R. Labs scientist who helps him to recuperate after having his
cybernetic parts replaced. Cyborg and Dr. Charles date for some time
and, along with Changeling, keeps trying to reach him when he is
seemingly mindless following the severe injuries he incurs during the
Titans Hunt storyline.

Deaths and rebirths

[Victor Stone - as CYBERION - is reunited with Sarah Charles.] Although
Cyborg's body was repaired by a team of Russian scientists after the
missile crash he had been in, albeit with more mechanical parts than
previously, his mind was not. Eventually, his mind was restored by an
alien race of computer intelligences called the Technis, created from
the sexual union of Swamp Thing and a machine-planet when Swamp Thing
was travelling through space. Cyborg, however, had to remain with the
Technis both to maintain his mind and because, in return for restoring
him, he had to teach them about humanity. He took the name CYBERION, and
gradually started becoming less human in outlook, connecting entirely to
the Technis planet.

Eventually, Cyberion returned to Earth, establishing a Technis construct
on the moon and a smaller base on Earth. With Vic's consciousness
dormant, but his desire for companionship controlling the actions of the
Technis' planet, it began kidnapping former Titans members, his
conscious mind so suppressed that he was not only searching for deceased
Titans, but even sent one probe looking for himself as Cyborg. He ended
up plugging them into virtual reality scenarios, representing what he
believed to be their "perfect worlds"; for example, Beast Boy was back
with the Doom Patrol, Damage was spending time being congratulated by
the Justice Society as a true hero, and Nightwing was confronted by a
Batman who actually smiled and offered to talk about their relationship.
Although the Titans were freed, there was a strong disagreement between
them and the Justice League over what action to take; the League
believed that there was nothing left of Victor to save, whereas the
Titans were willing to try, culminating in a brief battle, where the
Atom and Catwoman (who had followed the Justice League to investigate)
sided with the League while the Flash fought with the Titans. While Vic
was distracted trying to aid his friends, a Titans team consisting of
Changeling and the original five Titans were sent by Raven to try making
contact with Vic's human side, while Superman, Wonder Woman, Green
Lantern, the Martian Manhunter, Power Girl, Captain , and Mary
 moved the moon back to its proper place. Eventually, thanks
primarily to Changeling's encouragement, and Omen and Raven holding Vic
together long enough to come up with a plan, Vic's consciousness was
restored, and "downloaded" into the Omegadrome, a morphing war-suit
belonging to former Titan Minion. In the wake of this event, the Titans
reformed and Vic was part of the new group. However, he felt less
human than ever before.

Shortly after this, Nightwing revealed he had cloned Vic's body, and by
flowing the Omegadrome through the clone, Vic regained his human form,
but still had the abilities of the Omegadrome. He often used the
Omegadrome to recreate his original look in battle. With his newfound
humanity, Vic took a leave of absence, moving first to L.A. with Beast
Boy and then to Central City. While in Central City, Vic was involved in
one of the Thinker's schemes, helping Wally hack the Thinker's attempt
to plug himself into the minds of Central City's population so that
Wally could outthink his opponent, though Vic lost the abilities of the
Omegadrome in the process.

Mentor

Vic mentored the new incarnation of the Teen Titans, consisting mainly
of sidekicks, most of whom have taken over the identities of former
members (i.e. Tim Drake, the third Robin, instead of Dick Grayson, the
original Robin and Titans leader), as well as stalwarts such as
Starfire, Raven, and Beast Boy, where they have fought enemies such as
Deathstroke, Brother Blood, Doctor Light, The Titans Tomorrow, and a
brainwashed Superboy and Indigo during a team up with the Outsiders in
the Insiders storyline. In the end, Cyborg was the only one capable of
standing up to Dr. Light, thanks to his solar shields, although he makes
it clear that he only won the fight because the rest of the Titans had
softened Light up first.

Infinite Crisis and beyond

During Infinite Crisis, Cyborg joined Donna's New Cronus team that went
to investigate a hole in the universe that was found during the
Rann-Thanagar War. He left Beast Boy in charge of the Titans while he
was gone. They arrived at the reset center of the universe and with the
help of assorted heroes aided in the defeat of Alexander Luthor, who was
attempting to recreate the multiverse and build a perfect Earth from it.

According to 52 Week 5, Cyborg was fused together with Firestorm after
returning to Earth. This was caused by the energy ripples caused by
Alexander Luthor Jr. which altered the Zeta Ray Beams the heroes were
going to use to return home.

After being severely damaged during the events of Infinite Crisis,
Cyborg was rebuilt over time in thanks to Tower caretakers Wendy and
Marvin. He awoke a year later to find a wholly different Teen Titans
being led by Robin, the only member from the team he formed prior to
going into space. He is still a member of the team, but feels that Kid
Devil and Ravager are hardly worthy Titans, and thus is attempting to
find a way to reform "the real Titans".

After the team along with the Doom Patrol defeated the Brotherhood of
Evil, Cyborg asked Beast Boy to rejoin the Titans, but Gar refused,
saying that his skills were needed with the Doom Patrol. After returning
to Titans Tower, Cyborg began reviewing the security tapes during the
last year, in which it appears that he was looked to by all the Titans
of the past year for a shoulder to lean on, despite being in a coma-like
state.

It appears that although Cyborg has returned to the team, the role of
leader is now in the hands of Robin. He does however retain the position
of statesman amongst the team and occasionally plays second-in-command.

In Justice League of America (vol. 2) #3, Batman, Wonder Woman, and
Superman agree that Cyborg should be offered membership in the new
Justice League. However, following a battle against Amazo, Green Lantern
and Black Canary take over the formation of the JLA, and Cyborg is not
amongst the roster.

In the Teen Titans East one-shot, Cyborg gathered together a new team
of Titans. During a training exercise, the group was attacked by Trigon,
and Cyborg was blasted by a giant energy beam. He was last seen in a
crater, with only his head and torso remaining.

Titans

In the aftermath of Trigon's assault in the Titans East one shot,
Cyborg has been placed into a special hoverchair while he recuperates.
Cyborg's body is completely repaired in Titans #5. Soon after, the
resurrected and unbalanced Jericho enters Cyborg's body, using him to
manipulate the defenses at Titans Tower to kill the Teen Titans.
Jericho's plans are foiled when Static, the newest Teen Titan, uses his
electrical powers to overload the Tower's systems, causing feedback that
knocks Jericho out of Cyborg. After recovering, Cyborg pretends to
still have Jericho inside of him, in order to draw out Vigilante, who
was currently targeting Jericho. The plot works too well when Vigilante
appears and shoots Cyborg in the head.

2008 miniseries

In an unspecified time during the Teen Titans comics, a man with
enhancements similar to Cyborg's attacks Dr. Sarah Charles on the day of
her wedding to Deshaun, a young scientist. Cyborg rushes in for the
save, discovering how Deshaun, connected to Project M, has sold the
technology used to turn Stone into Cyborg to the military. He also finds
that the enhanced man was Ron Evers, once Vic's best friend now turned
terrorist, who was seeking vengeance for the soldiers used as test
subjects. After Cyborg manages to calm down his friend and discovers the
truth: Mr. Orr, revealed as the mastermind behind Project M's cyborg
research, brings his Stone-derived best subjects: the current Equus, an
armored form of the Wildebeest, and a cyberized man sporting
enhancements even more powerful than Stone's current ones called CYBORG
2.0.

Cyborg 2.0 turns out to be the Titans Tomorrow Cyborg 2.0, snatched from
his proper timeline and cajoled by Orr into fighting his younger self
for the possession of their shared technology and Orr's permission to
use it in the battlefield. Cyborg is soon forced to fight simultaneously
against the PHANTOM LIMBS, an elite force of soldiers crippled in the
Middle East and restored by his tech, and the CYBORG REVENGE SQUAD, a
broader formation composed of the Fearsome Five, Magenta, Girder, the
Thinker, and Cyborgirl. Although the Cyborg Revenge Squad soon gains the
upper hand, with the help of his fellow Titans Cyborg is able to hold
his own in combat, reverse engineer on the fly some of the future
technology used by Cyborg 2.0, and enhance his own body enough to win
against Mr. Orr. He later decides to get a new lease in life, forgiving
Deshaun and Sarah Charles on their wedding day for abusing his
technology, resuming dating Sarah Simms and having the Phantom Limbs
fitted with new, non-military, prosthetics. It is however implied the
Phantom Limbs, unwilling to see Stone's offer as a sign of good will,
are trying to get back their weaponized prosthetics and wait for a
rematch.

Blackest Night and JLA

During the events of Blackest Night, Cyborg joins with Starfire, Beast
Boy, and several other heroes to form an emergency team to fight off the
army of dead Titans who have been reanimated as Black Lanterns. He later
joins in the final battle at Coast City.

Following the dissolution of the current JLA after Justice League: Cry
for Justice, Cyborg is invited by Donna to join Kimiyo Hoshi's new
Justice League. He befriends Red Tornado, and claims that he has come
up with a plan to make him indestructible.

After a battle with Doctor Impossible's gang, Cyborg is forced to take a
leave of absence from the team in order to not only help rebuild Red
Tornado, but also help Roy Harper, who had his arm severed by
Prometheus. During this time, Victor leads Superboy and Kid Flash to
the city of Dakota to rescue the Teen Titans, who had been defeated and
captured by Holocaust. The Titans emerge victorious from the battle
after Kid Flash uses his powers to send Holocaust plummeting into the
Earth's inner core.

Despite apparently being written off the team, writer James Robinson
explained that Cyborg will continue to have a presence on the JLA, and
will even be given a co-feature in the back of the book for Justice
League of America #48-50. In the co-feature, Cyborg battles Red
Tornado after he has been driven insane by the power of the Starheart.
In the midst of the battle, a flashback reveals that Victor had rebuilt
Red Tornado using self-replicating nanites similar to the ones that
Prometheus infected Roy with after cutting off his arm, thus making the
android indestructible. Cyborg manages to free Red Tornado his power
matrix.

Cyborg briefly appears in Justice League: Generation Lost, where he is
shown helping Wonder Woman and Starfire search for Maxwell Lord after
his resurrection.

Following an adventure in another dimension, Static is left powerless,
and Miss Martian is rendered comatose. Cyborg stops the powerless Static
from returning to Dakota, and instead tells him that he and a scientist
named Rochelle Barnes will be taking him to Cadmus Labs to find a way to
get his powers back and awaken Miss Martian. As Static packs up his
belongings, Cyborg and Rochelle have a conversation which reveals that
they are lying to Static, and have an ulterior motive for taking the two
Titans to Cadmus.

He later appears in the final two issues of The Return of Bruce Wayne,
where he helps his former teammate Red Robin in his attempt to stop
Bruce Wayne from inadvertently unleashing an apocalyptic explosion of
Omega Energy.

Cyborg and Red Tornado later travel to the moon alongside Doctor Light,
Animal Man, Congorilla, Zauriel, Tasmanian Devil and Bulleteer as part
of an emergency group of heroes gathered to assist the Justice League in
their battle against Eclipso. Shortly into the battle, Cyborg and the
others are taken over by Eclipso and are turned against their JLA
comrades. The reserve JLA members are all freed after Eclipso is
defeated.

The New 52

[The redesigned Cyborg as a member of the original Justice League. Art
by Ivan Reis.] As of August 2011, Cyborg is featured as one of the main
characters in a new Justice League ongoing series written by Geoff Johns
and drawn by Jim Lee as part of 's The New 52 relaunch. Johns has said
of Cyborg, "He represents all of us in a lot of ways. If we have a
cellphone and we're texting on it, we are a cyborg â that's what a
cyborg is, using technology as an extension of ourselves."

The first storyline takes place five years in the past and details the
revised origin of the original Justice League. Victor Stone appears as a
high school football star who is heavily sought after by a number of
college scouts, but apparently has a distant relationship with his
father, Silas. After winning a big game, Victor is shown calling his
father and angrily telling him that he broke his promise and missed yet
another one of his son's games. Later Victor appears at S.T.A.R.
Labs where his father works. The scientists appear to be working on the
Mother Box that Superman came in contact with from the Parademon. Victor
engages in another argument with his father and tells him that the
scouts were there to give him full scholarships to college. When asking
if his father will ever appear at any of his games, his father replies
"No." Just then the Mother Box explodes, killing the other scientists
and destroying most of Victor's body while Victor's father looks on in
horror. Silas does everything he can for Victor's survival. He along
with Sarah Charles, and T. O. Morrow go in "The Red Room" in S.T.A.R.
labs which contains every piece of technology from around the world.
Silas attempts to treat Victor with something that has never been
attempted before and he is seen injecting Victor with some type of
nanites and having Dr. Morrow put the robotic pieces on Victor (devices
such as: a Promethean skin graft, Doctor William Magnus' responsometer,
Anthony Ivo's A-maze operating system, The classified and prototypical
B-maze operating system and Ryan Choi's White Dwarf Stabilizer). Vic's
life is saved and the energies from the motherbox are incorporated into
his new form as Cyborg. This allows Victor to access the vast New Gods
data library and discover Darkseid's true invasion plans.

In the following issue we see Victor as Cyborg. As the issue opens
Victor cannot feel his hands or legs. He sees himself for the first time
with his robotic parts and is panicked by his new body. Suddenly,
Parademons burst into the red room and leap toward Sarah Charles.
However, Cyborg's defense system's reacts automatically weaponizing his
arm into a sound cannon from which he fires his powerful white noise
cannon, disintegrating the two Parademons and blasting a gigantic hole
in the Star Labs building. After saving Sarah's life Victor asks his
father what has happened to him, his father tells him that he couldn't
let him die. Cyborg obviously distraught exclaims, "You did this to me."
and flees, despite Silas' plea for him to wait. Later in the street
Cyborg sees a woman being set upon by a group of Parademons. He leaps to
the woman's aid, punching the parademon. However, in ensuing scuffle
Cyborg inadvertently absorbs some of the Parademon's components giving
him access to Boom Tube technology. This new ability automatically
transports or teleports Victor to where Batman, Green Lantern, Superman,
Flash, Wonder Woman, and Aquaman are fighting the Parademons, moments
before Darkseid arrives. Cyborg fights alongside Batman, Green Lantern,
Superman, Flash, Wonder Woman, and Aquaman against Darkseid and his
Parademons, but despite their best efforts Darkseid proves to be too
strong. Fortunately, Cyborg is able to reverse engineer the alien boom
tube technology and with a considerable amount of stress on his systems
he is able to teleport all the invading aliens including Darkseid off
the planet, saving the earth. After sending Darkseid back where he came
from, Cyborg helps to found the Justice League.

Victor has not begun any process of reconciliation with his father, who
is primarily concerned with Victor's mechanics rather than his humanity.
Cyborg primarily focuses on his super-heroics, aiding Batman and others
when he can and monitoring crime through his cybernetics. After the
villain David Graves makes an attack against the Justice League, Cyborg
and his team mates travel to the Valley of Souls. There he learns that
he walks the line between life and death. He sees a false apparition of
his human self that tries to convince him that Victor Stone is dead and
Cyborg is just an imitation. Victor quickly sees past this ruse, and he
and the rest of the Justice League defeat Graves. We learn through a
conversation with Flash, that Cyborg questions his humanity now that he
is part machine and that he lives on the Watch Tower, the Justice
League's headquarters. Flash cracks a joke in an attempt to lighten
the mood and assure Cyborg he is still human. During the Throne of
Atlantis storyline, Cyborg at first rejects an upgrade his father has
that would allow him to operate underwater at the price of his remaining
lung which to him would mean sacrificing more of his humanity.
However following the capture of the rest of the Justice League by Ohm
who sentenced then to the bottom of the ocean, Cyborg as he calls in
reserves to hold off Ohm's forces reluctantly accepted the upgrade.
This allows him and Mera to rescue the others.

It is unclear if this version of Cyborg was a member of the Teen Titans
or the original Teen Titans ever existed, as there have been
contradictory statements and references made regarding the Teen Titans
in The New 52.

During the "Trinity War" storyline, Cyborg gets a visual of Shazam
heading to Kahndaq, to which Batman assembles the Justice League with
the help from Zatanna to meet in Kahndaq to stop Shazam. Following
the supposed death of Doctor Light in Kahndaq, Batman tells Superman
that Cyborg and Martian Manhunter are doing an autopsy to prove his
death was not Superman's fault. As Wonder Woman leads the Justice
League Dark to go look for Pandora, Cyborg is among the superheroes that
remain at A.R.G.U.S. while Batman, Flash, Aquaman, Shazam, Steve Trevor,
the Justice League of America, Zatanna, and Phantom Stranger go to stop
Wonder Woman. Cyborg was present when Atom tells him, Superman,
Element Woman and Firestorm the true purpose of the creation of the
Justice League of America and that she was spying on the Justice League
which is how the Justice League of America ended up in Kahndaq. When
the Crime Syndicate arrives on Prime Earth, Cyborg's old prosthetic
parts combine to form a robot called Grid (who is operated by a sentient
computer virus). During the Forever Evil event, after Batman and
Catwoman drop Cyborg off to his father in Detroit, he makes the
choice to willingly receive a new cybernetic body and helps his father
and Dr. Morrow create one that is slimmer in appearance so Cyborg could
look more human. Working together with the Metal Men created by Doc
Magus, Cyborg succeeds in shutting down Grid.

Afterwards Cyborg helped newcomer to the group Shazam fit in with the
league as the rest set out to find Power ring's missing accessory which
flew off after the death of the former wearer. While on monitor duty
He and Shazam experiment with some of his magical powers to aid in
finding the ring after joking of having an Xbox in his left shoulder;
only for the young ward to conjure up a ping pong table, which they play
while having spare time on their hands. Eventually the call goes out
and everyone in the league mobilizes to secure the new rampaging Power
Ring before the Doom Patrol does. After coaxing Billy into action
against Jessica Cruis, Victor moves in to interface with the ring itself
finding out a great about the ring of Volthoom and his current host only
to be forcefully thrown out after the ring entity rejects him causing
his systems to short circuit taking him out of the battle.

He is last seen recovering at S.T.A.R. Labs after Shazam rushed him too
the med bay after the power ring crisis was handled. While Superman and
Lex Luthor battled Gorilla Grodd Cyborg gave Billy the okay to head out
and see if they needed help as the former wondered what he saw within
the ring after his dad warned him interfacing with it again could trap
him in it forever.

Afterwards when Lex Luthor and Captain Cold were excepted onto the team.
An incident involving batman's son; Damien Wayne during the "Robin Rises
Alpha & Omega" story arc in Batman, led up to most of the justice League
battling against Glorious Godfrey and a Parademon horde from Apokolips
when they captured the chaos shard & the sarcophagus of Damien and later
fleeing back home. All the league members present, Cyborg included
state to an adamant Bruce Wayne that running headlong into unmarked
X-factor territory for a suicide mission was less than ideal considering
the consequences that could befall earth. This all boils over eventually
culminating in Batman hijacking Cyborgs teleportation systems to zip up
to the Watchtower in order to retrieve an experimental and highly
dangerous combat suit in order to meet out his agenda; But Cyborg
menages to block his administrative access so that he, Shazam, Aquaman,
Wonder Woman, Lex and Cold physically restrain him. The latter of which
begrudgingly gives up and retires to the batcave.

Once after the bat left however the rest of the bat family turned up
asking Victor for help with some digitized doppelgangers of baddies that
bruce initially set up in order to distract the league, destabilize
watchtower security to secure the Hellbat and eventually use a personal
Mother Box (secured from a Parademon kept in cold storage) to vacate to
Apokolips. After making his way to the Batcave to meet with them,
he's directed over to a console which will enable him to directly access
the Batcomputer's more sophisticated systems, it was all a ruse however
utilizing a preemptive countermeasure devised by Batman tailored to
cyborgs specific weaknesses where he was temporarily incapacitated and
was set into a VR simulation where he relived his more peaceful days in
collage, while Batgirl went to work on HIS Motherbox in order to secure
a path towards apokolips and chase after their father. But Victor
eventually snapped out of his dream haze and followed them through,
angred that they used him in such a way. Having piggybacked along
with Titus who pitched a ride on his leg, catching up with the rest of
the Batman Family Cyborg and them have a run in with the scavengers of
Armegeddo who quickly vacate after some apokoliptian Hunger Dogs make
their way onto the scene. They eventually catch up with the armor clad
dark knight ripping his way through a sizable chunk of Apokolips's
forces singlehanded; as Jason Tim and Barbara show him the Robin Medals
Alfred gave them in order to remind him of his purpose, Batman snaps out
of his berserker rage noting cyborg had reluctantly accompanied them to
hell itself. Having made their way into Darksied's citadel where Kalibak
Was readying his Chaos Cannon to fire again, as the caped crusaders kept
him and his forces occupied Cyborg made short work of the massive war
engine literally tearing it in half. But when he went to set a timed
self-destruct sequence within the Apokoliptian computers however Vic
suffered a catastrophic feedback that fried most of his internal systems
leaving him inoperable just as Darksied Himself made his appearance.

While Batman fought and held him off, he ran Batgirl through a crash
coarse on how to hot wire his own Motherbox when his internal systems
god fried. Seeing as Darksied smashed Batman's Boom Tube generator
Cyborg was their only chance off Apokolips, After successfully jury
rigging his internal systems Cyborg and the rest of the Bat rogues made
a hasty exit stage left as Bruce powers his recovered fragment of the
Chaos Shard with Darkseid's Omega Effect and then blasting him against a
wall to cover their escape. In the aftermath, escapade's Cyborg, who
is still unable to facilitate himself, wonders what is going on as
Damian Wayne is successfully revived, however a second anomaly cranks
out of the Boom Tube that was opened and Kalibak comes comes charging
through it. Occupied with the rest of the gang Vic tries his best to
reestablish his downed systems while an empowered Damien does his best
to hold off the intruder, establishing a comm-link with Batman, Bruce
readies the batplane while Victor gains control over the still open
tube. As batman rams his jet into the evil New God sending him careening
back to Apokolips Cyborg closes the portal on him banishing Darksied's
first born for good, with the threat over Cyborg heads back topside to
inform the rest of the league of what all transpired stating he has JL
business to attend to.

An eponymous ongoing series, by writer David F. Walker and artist Ivan
Reis, debuted in July 2015.


Powers and abilities

Large portions of Victor Stone's body have been replaced by advanced
mechanical parts (hence the name Cyborg), granting him superhuman
strength, speed, stamina, and flight. His mechanically-enhanced body,
much of which is metallic, is far more durable than a normal human body.
Cyborg's internal computer system can interface with external computers.
Other features include an electronic 'eye' which replicates vision, but
at a superhuman level. His mechanical parts contain a wide variety of
tools and weapons, such as a grappling hook/line and a finger-mounted
laser. Perhaps his most frequently-used weapon is his sound amplifier
(often referred to as his "white sound blaster" in the comic books; the
Teen Titans animated series calls it a "sonic cannon"), which can be
employed at various settings either to stun the ears of his foes or to
deliver concentrated blasts of sound potent enough to shatter rock or
deform steel.

In addition to his mechanical enhancements, Stone possesses an
"exceptionally gifted" level of intelligence; his IQ has been measured
at 170.

Cyborg has tinkered over time with his cybernetic parts, enhancing his
functions and abilities to levels beyond those set by his father. One
feature that sets him apart from the "mass production" version built by
Project M is a self-repair system, able to flawlessly repair the
mechanical parts of his body, no matter how worn out they are, and even
improve the health of the still biological parts to an unknown degree.

CYBORG'S NEW 52 (NU) FUNCTIONS

-   Cybernetics: Cyborg possesses cybernetic enhancements that provide
    superhuman strength, endurance and durability. Cyborg can also
    interface with computers. Built into his body-armor are an infrared
    eye with HUD, a bionic ear that allows you to hear sounds from long
    distance, computer generator, sound amplifier (similar to a sonic
    cannon), and special programming adapters that allow him to
    interface with other body extensions.
    -   Body Resistance: The nature of Cyborg's body provides him with
        natural body armor offering resistance versus physical damage
        and energy attacks.
    -   Superhuman Strength: At optimal capacity, Vic can lift/press in
        excess of several tons. Cyborg's upper strength limits have
        fluctuated with upgrades to his systems over time.
    -   Superhuman Speed: He possessed a degree of superspeed and could
        leap great distances.
    -   Superhuman Endurance
    -   Superhuman Durability: His bones are reinforced
        with molybdenum-steel.
    -   Sensor Systems
    -   Computer Interfacing
    -   Flight: Powered by rocket boosters.
        -   Jump Jets: In place for leaping great distances, to cut down
            on relying on Boom Tubes due to the problems they caused in
            the past.
    -   Technomorphing: Can physically assimilate other pieces of
        technology into himself as well as freely alternate his
        cybernetic body at will.
        -   Technopathy
        -   Shapeshifting
    -   Heart Attack: Cyborg also adds the ability to emit an EMP blast
        to disable electronics fifty meters away from him.
    -   The Grid: A program Vic and Batman created to help him better
        manage the constant flow of uploading and downloading data he
        receives on a constant basis. It acts as his solipisistic engram
        into the Cyberverse/Digitalverse where he can better prioritize
        and interface with the worldwide networking system, focusing on
        high-priority items and filter out other received data.
    -   Boom Tube Manipulation: Due to absorbing and interfacing with a
        Mother box, Cyborg can open a Boom Tube extra-dimensional
        point-to-point travel portal to teleport him and his companions,
        once having opened up multiple boom tubes in order to banish
        Darkseid and his invading hordes back to Apokolips. However,
        when transporting groups, his transporter can get overloaded,
        roughly one out of every 1,000 times and ends up transporting
        all those teleported to Apokolips.
-   As part of the events of the Throne of Atlantis Aquaman crossover,
    Cyborg's lungs were replaced by cybernetic lungs that allow him to
    breathe underwater.
-   Technomorphic Evolution: after having a catastrophic run in with the
    techbreakers from a parallel earth and dying of his injuries. The
    alien technology composing his frame some how kicked in and
    resurrected him vastly upgrading his technology and integrating his
    ruined organic parts with the machinery composing his cybernetics.
    An adversary of the League once stated his technology was steadily
    evolving causing a host of new functions to activate.
    -   Regeneration
    -   Resurrection
    -   Mechanical function Enhancement

After he lost his original cybernetic enhancements which became Grid at
the end of the Trinity War arc, during the Forever Evil event, he
has his father Silas Stone and Dr. Morrow help create a new cybernetic
body. As explained in that issue, by cutting down on strength, speed,
and stamina, Cyborg's new cybernetic body looks slimmer in appearance as
Victor describes looking more human compared to looking like a tank. It
is unknown whether or not Cyborg had re-integrated the technology
stripped from him after Grid's defeat. After a very Nasty run in with
alt. universe invaders calling themselves the techbreakers Cyborg's
systems had undergone a complete systems overhaul causing a new
operating system to come online restoring him to life and healing his
damaged circuitry as well as reintegrating his ruined flesh into it,
turning him into a full on Techno-Organic being.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the Flashpoint event, the timeline is greatly altered. In this
alternate version of events, Cyborg is America's greatest superhero
(occupying the role held by Superman in 's standard timeline). He
attempts to put together a group to stop the war between Aquaman and
Wonder Woman's forces. However, the heroes he approaches all refuse,
after Batman declines. Cyborg connects the resistance member Lois
Lane to spy on the Amazons for any information. Cyborg rescues
people in the subway station from arsonist Heat Wave. Abin Sur
crashes on Earth; he is subsequently taken into custody by Cyborg and
the US government to be questioned about his reasons for being on Earth.
When Abin Sur is recovering, he is on a mission to retrieve the Entity,
however Cyborg convinces him to join with Earth's heroes.
Afterwards, Cyborg is seen talking with the President in his
headquarters in Detroit. The President states that Steve Trevor sent a
signal to the resistance but was intercepted by a traitor among the
heroes that Cyborg tried to recruit and suspicion leads to the Outsider.
For Cyborg's failure, he is relieved of duty as the Element Woman sneaks
into the headquarters. Later, Cyborg is called by Batman and the Flash
for help in tracking down "Project: Superman", the government branch
responsible for 'raising' Kal-El after his rocket destroyed Metropolis
upon its arrival. Cyborg and them agree to join the cause to stop Wonder
Woman and Aquaman, but only if Batman gets to choose who to recruit, and
Cyborg agrees as long as he comes with them. The three sneak into the
government underground bunkers, and the group comes across a giant vault
door bearing the Superman logo. Cyborg opens the door and sees a
weakened Kal-El, with the arrival of guards. Forced to escape, Kal-El's
powers begin to manifest and flies off leaving them at the hands of the
guards. While they are fending off the guards, they are rescued by
Element Woman. Later, Cyborg and other heroes arrive at the 
Family's place helping the Flash from drastically forgetting his
memories. After the Flash is recovering, he asked to stop the
Atlantean/Amazon war from casualty, although Cyborg and the heroes are
not willing unless Batman wants to join them, because Cyborg explains to
him that they believe Batman was invincible. However, the Flash
convinces him that no one is invincible and the group of heroes are
agreeing to join the Flash. The heroes arrive at New Themyscira to stop
the Atlantean/Amazon war, and the Flash tells Cyborg to find Aquaman's
ultimate bomb to dispose of it.

Titans Tomorrow

In the Titans Tomorrow storyline, a future version of Victor Stone
called CYBORG 2.0 is a member of Titans East. He is shown having similar
plating as the animated Cyborg from the Teen Titans cartoon.

Earth-23

An alternate version of Cyborg appears as part of the Justice League of
Earth-23 in the  Multiverse.

Injustice: Gods Among Us

Cyborg appears as a character in the prequel comic to the game, where he
joins Superman's Regime to force peace on the world. He serves as
Superman's eyes and ears over the world, offering insight on any
activity deemed disruptive. At the end of Year Two he discovers someone
is trying to hack into the Regime's system during a war with the Green
Lantern Corps (Oracle) and goes to the Watchtower to locate her. Jim
Gordon follows and corners him, managing to rip Cyborg's metallic face
plate off and knock him unconscious, stopping the locating sequence.
Cyborg spends most of the next year a prisoner of the Insurgency until
he is released when the two groups collide in a battle that nearly
destroys them when Trigon and Mxylplitz get involved. In Year Four he
and the Regime are confronted by the Greek Gods, who want Superman to
step down as ruler. While the Regime is forced to go underground, they
come together to defeat the gods once and for all.


In other media

Television

Animation

-   Cyborg appeared in The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians (the
    final incarnation of Super Friends), voiced by Ernie Hudson.
    Cyborg's origin was told via a medical journal read by Dr. Martin
    Stein saying Cyborg was a promising decathlon athlete until an
    accident destroyed most of his body and his father replaced part of
    his body with machine parts. Also, he is not a Titan. He becomes
    fast friends with teammate Firestorm. He is an affiliate of the
    Justice League of America under Superman. In the introductory
    episode to Cyborg, "The Seeds of Doom", Cyborg's abilities save
    Earth from Darkseid's seeds, but as Superman warns, make Darkseid a
    dangerous enemy to Cyborg, so Cyborg joins the team and proves a
    valuable asset.
-   When Justice League was pitched to the Kids' WB network, the
    lineup originally included three young members as protÃ©gÃ©s for the
    Justice League. The members would have been Robin, Impulse, and an
    original character described as a "teenage female version of Cyborg"
    (Cyborgirl or Natasha Irons). The promo is viewable on the fourth
    disc of the Justice League Season One boxset.

[Cyborg using his Sonic Cannon in the Teen Titans animated series.]

-   Cyborg appears in the Teen Titans animated series, voiced by Khary
    Payton. This version of Cyborg is very similar to his comic
    book counterpart. His nickname is 'Cy' and, like most of his
    teammates, is never referred to by his given name. However, he does
    take the alias 'Stone' (based on his real last name) in the Season 3
    episode "Deception". The two main differences are his design and
    that he is more easygoing than his comics counterpart. His head is
    considerably more rounded and bald (based on his Titans Hunt
    counterpart), and his mechanical parts are bulkier. His primary
    weapon is a sonic cannon housed in his forearm; initially he uses
    only his right arm to fire, but later episodes reveal that his left
    arm has an identical cannon built into as well. Other onboard
    weapons and tools, such as an acetylene torch, a remote-operated
    video camera, and several missile launchers, can be deployed as
    needed, and his arms and legs are detachable. He is also capable of
    shooting the same blasts from his cannon out of the bottom of his
    foot (shown in the episodes "Winner Take All" and "Titans East").
    Cyborg is the Titans' chief technician and gadgeteer. He is
    responsible for the construction of the Titan Tower's electronic and
    security systems and the team's main vehicles (the T-Car and
    the T-Ship). His most dominant personality faults featured in the
    series are his enormous appetite and a tendency to be overly vain
    about his work ("Deep Six", "Car Trouble" and "Wavelength"); as a
    result, he fosters a special dislike for those who abuse his devices
    irresponsibly, especially Gizmo and Brother Blood. On occasion,
    Cyborg acts as the team's second-in-command, but he tends to butt
    heads with Robin on rather trivial matters. He also is good friends
    with Beast Boy. In "Deception" that he never had a chance to finish
    high school due to circumstances that made him what he is. The only
    time Cyborg's personal history has been discussed is in "Deception"
    in which he discusses his involuntary cyborg status with Starfire,
    and in "The End" when Trigon creates duplicates that reflect the
    dark side of each character. During the fight between Cyborg and his
    duplicate, Cyborg's dark duplicate says "Go ahead! Run cryin' home
    to Mommy! Oh that's right. You don't have a mommy.". Despite his
    easy going nature he has shown to be very serious. In "Go!" which
    revealed how the Teen Titans met, and the spin-off comic book series
    Teen Titans Go!_ revealed that his mother died, and he was injured
    to the extent he required his cybernetic implants in a car accident.
-   Cyborg appears in Mad. In episode 44, Cyborg (voiced by Hugh
    Davidson) is seen competing in a half-machine competition against
    Winter the Dolphin and Hiccup and Toothless. In episode 45, a
    segment that parodies Teen Titans with Titanic has Cyborg (voiced
    by Gary Anthony Williams) disappointed that his ship was taken down
    by an iceberg and fires on it. In episode 46, Cyborg joins the other
    superheroes in a musical number that asks Superman, Batman, and
    Wonder Woman on why they are called "Super Friends". On his part,
    Cyborg was seen paying Wonder Woman when the chorus sings about the
    "union dues". In here, Cyborg's mechanical eye is on the wrong side.
-   Cyborg returns in the New Teen Titans series of shorts with Khary
    Payton reprising his role except for "Lightning Round" where he is
    instead played by Kevin Michael Richardson.
-   Cyborg returns in Teen Titans Go!_ with Khary Payton reprising
    his role. He is Beast Boy's best friend and his favorite food
    is burgers. In this show, Cyborg is half and half on the fact that
    he's part robot as while he misses some things he had as a human
    (the sweet feeling of knee skin), he also enjoys the cool things
    being half robot lets him do.
-   Cyborg appears as part of the Justice League in the television
    special Lego Batman: Be-Leagured, with Khary Payton reprising
    his role.

Live-action

-   Cyborg appeared in the 15th episode of Smallville's fifth season,
    which was also titled "Cyborg", and premiered on February 16, 2006.
    In this version, Victor (Lee Thompson Young), is a former Metropolis
    High School football star. He is involved in a car accident that
    kills him, supposedly, and the rest of his family. However, he is
    secretly rebuilt by Cyntechnics scientists including Dr. Alistair
    Krieg (Mackenzie Gray), who experimented on a group of
    test subjects. Victor was the only test subject to survive
    the experiments. Cyntechnics was bought up by LuthorCorp shortly
    before Victor's escape. Lex denies any knowledge of Cyntechnics'
    secretive activities. Although Victor's cybernetic enhancements are
    entirely endoskeletal instead of exoskeletal as they are in the
    comics and other media, a shot of Clark Kent's X-ray vision reveals
    that Victor's cranial armor covers the same-shaped area as it does
    in the comics. He also bleeds a dark fluid as he does in the comics.
    Smallville never uses the name "Cyborg" in his first appearance.
    Instead, Victor refers to his enhancements as "bionic", and the
    episode explicitly references the 1970s television series The Six
    Million Dollar Man which also featured a cybernetically-enhanced
    "bionic" man. Lee Thompson Young reprised his role in "Justice", a
    Season 6 episode about Green Arrow gathering together a group of
    individuals to combat Lex Luthor and his experiments. The episode
    premiered on January 18, 2007. In this episode, Victor has finally
    taken the name "Cyborg", as Green Arrow's team uses code names. Also
    on the team are Aquaman and Impulse. While Victor was last seen with
    a girlfriend named Katherine, he explains that his mechanical parts
    put a strain on the relationship. After their eventual break up,
    Victor states that it was Green Arrow who kept him from committing
    suicide. The episode also shows Cyborg wearing something of a
    costume (a stylized silver vest), and utilizing further enhancements
    Green Arrow gave him. One of his new functions allows him to hack
    into and disable security systems. While connecting to machines,
    Cyborg's left eye glows red, another nod to his comic
    book incarnation. Cyborg gets mentioned by codename in the season 9
    episode "Checkmate" by Amanda Waller, demanding to know the names
    and faces of everyone who ever worked for Watchtower (aka Clark
    and Chloe). Young again reprised his role as Victor Stone in the
    season 9 finale titled "Salvation". He reported in to Watchtower of
    the battle against the Kandorians. Cyborg is a main character in the
    online animated Smallville spin-off Smallville Legends: Justice &
    Doom along with the other Justice Leaguers. In episode three, he
    displays additional abilities such as offensive sound
    wave projection.

Film

Live-action

-   Cyborg appears in the  Extended Universe played by Ray Fisher. He
    first appears in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice in a brief
    sequence of footage that is viewed by Wonder Woman. The footage
    depicts Cyborg's origin story. Fisher will reprise the character in
    the two-part Justice League film, Part One set for release on
    November 17, 2017 and Part Two set for release on July 14, 2019,
    and a Cyborg solo film scheduled for April 3, 2020.

Animation

-   Cyborg also appears in Teen Titans: Trouble in Tokyo movie, voiced
    by Khary Payton. In the movie, Cyborg goes to Tokyo with the rest of
    the Titans to find Brushogun. However, he ends up going to an "all
    you can eat" buffet instead, angering the cook, who cannot satisfy
    Cyborg's appetite. After its revealed that Brushogun is being used
    by the local detective for his own selfish purposes, the Titans
    manage to pull the withered old ink wizard free of the machine
    stealing his magic to create soldiers. Cy then says "it's about
    time" when Robin and Starfire finally share a romantic kiss. At the
    end of the film, Cy is given a large meal as thanks for his help in
    saving Tokyo.
-   An unnamed alternate version of Cyborg from a parallel Earth appears
    briefly in the animated film Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths,
    working as a "Made Man", lackeys of the Crime Syndicate, among many
    other alternate versions of well known characters from .
-   Cyborg appears in Justice League: Doom, voiced by Bumper
    Robinson. In the film, this version is depicted as a cheerful
    but resourceful person. Cyborg is called by Batman during a fight
    with the Royal Flush Gang using a new type of dimensional projector.
    He states that this is not their standard M.O.. He ends up working
    alongside the Justice League after saving Wonder Woman from a deadly
    nanite poison created by Cheetah. Cyborg aids the team during the
    final battle against Vandal Savage and the Legion of Doom, and is
    later inducted into the team for his role in averting the
    destruction of Earth (in a clear connection to The New 52 team).
-   Cyborg appears in Lego Batman: The Movie â  Super Heroes Unite,
    with Brian Bloom reprising his role.
-   Cyborg appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox, voiced
    by Michael B. Jordan. In the film's beginning, he appears with
    the Justice League to disarm Professor Zoom's bombs. With Captain
    Atom's help, Cyborg disarms Captain Boomerang's bomb. In the
    distorted Flashpoint timeline, Cyborg is America's
    greatest superhero. He puts together a group to stop the war between
    Aquaman's and Wonder Woman's forces, however, Batman is the
    only holdout. After Lex Luthor's death to intercept Aquaman's
    doomsday device, Cyborg is relieved of duty. Later, Cyborg is called
    by Batman and the Flash for help in tracking down the government
    branch responsible for holding Kal-El. The three sneak into the
    underground bunkers, and eventually find a weakened Kal-El. After
    Kal-El's powers deals with the guards and Flash's worsening
    seizures, Cyborg and the other heroes are movativated by Flash to
    stop the Atlantean/Amazon war on their own. When the heroes arrive
    to stop the Atlantean/Amazon war, Cyborg confronts Aquaman.
    Unfortunately, Aquaman almost kills Cyborg, however, Kal-El arrives
    but cannot save Cyborg from dying from his wounds. His fate was,
    however, undone after Flash restores the world's timeline.
-   Cyborg appears in Justice League: War, voiced by Shemar Moore.
    The movie starts with Victor Stone as a human and a skilled football
    player (nicknamed "Victory"). However, Victor's father deliberately
    misses his games, believing that the physical prowess of an ordinary
    human will be meaningless in the future world of superhumans.
    Victor's mother seems to be dead by the time the movie starts. At
    the beginning of the Apokolips invasion, Victor is hit by an energy
    blast (the energy being similar to that used to create
    new Parademons) and left without a right arm or left leg. Barely
    alive, he is brought by his father to an advanced machine assembled
    by him from technology across the world. His father attempts to use
    the machine to heal Victor, but the process ends up with the machine
    fusing to his body. At first, he is completely covered by metal, but
    some parts break off his face during the battle, making him look
    much like his other versions. His former becomes sleeker after he
    crash-lands in front of the yet-to-be-formed Justice League. He was
    shown to be capable of interfacing with Apokoliptean technology, to
    the extent of halting the invasion by inverting all the Boom Tubes
    used for the invasion. In the final scene, when the heroes are being
    honored, Victor's father is shown in the crowd, finally proud of
    his son.
-   Cyborg appears in the animated film JLA Adventures: Trapped in
    Time, voiced by Avery Kidd Waddell.
-   Cyborg appears in the animated film Justice League: Throne of
    Atlantis, with Shemar Moore reprising his role. Continuing on from
    War, Cyborg is still adapting to not having a normal life. He
    resides at the Hall of Justice, which was built for the Justice
    League; however, only Shazam comes to visit. Cyborg explains that
    "there is no Justice League" - it's just something the human race
    came up with to make themselves feel safe. He also has had some of
    his remaining internal organs replaced with machinery, allowing him
    to spend extended periods underwater or in space. A former assistant
    of his father's, who has a crush on him, tries numerous times
    throughout the film to ask him on date, but her indirect
    methods fail. Cyborg proves valuable as he can project images of
    what he's seen; this allows him to broaast Ocean Master's boasting
    about killing his mother, thus making the Atlanteans ally themselves
    with the hybrid Arthur Curry/Aquaman, the only other heir to
    the throne.
-   Cyborg appears in the animated film Lego  Super Heroes:
    Justice League vs. Bizarro League, with Khary Payton reprising
    his role.
-   An alternate version of Victor Stone appears in Justice League:
    Gods and Monsters voiced by Taylor Parks. His father Silas was
    commissioned by Superman to look at Kryptonian technology, but he
    and his father were killed by a Metal Man designed to look
    like Superman. Silas notably fought back with sonic equipment
    similar to that seen in Cyborg's armor, while Victor used a
    grenade launcher. They are both killed by its heat vision. Superman
    later finds their charred skeletons holding each other; he holds a
    moment of silence to honor them.
-   Cyborg appears in the animated film Lego  Super Heroes:
    Justice League: Attack of the Legion of Doom, voiced again by
    Khary Payton.
-   Cyborg apepars in the animated film Lego  Super Heroes:
    Justice League: Cosmic Clash, with Khary Payton reprising his role.
-   Cyborg appears in Justice League vs. Teen Titans, with Shemar
    Moore reprising his role. In the film, it is shown that he relates
    to the Titans more closely than the other members of the League, as
    he is closer in age to the teens. While he chooses to stay with the
    Justice League, he still visits the Titans on occasion.
-   Cyborg will appear in The Lego Batman Movie as a member of the
    Justice League.

Video games

-   Cyborg is a playable character in the Teen Titans Game Boy Advance
    and console video games, with Khary Payton reprising his role in
    the latter.
-   Cyborg appears in the cinematic trailer for  Universe Online,
    voiced by Alexander Brandon. He is seen fighting alongside Batman
    and the Flash. In the hero campaign, he alongside Starfire,
    Nightwing, and Donna Troy are corrupted by Trigon (who is trying to
    control Raven). Once the players free Cyborg from Trigon's spell, he
    helps to track down Raven before Trigon fully controls her.
-   Cyborg appears as a playable fighter in Injustice: Gods Among
    Us with Khary Payton reprising his role. One of this version's
    mid-battle quotes is "boo-yah" from Teen Titans animated series.
    In the Regime's reality, Cyborg is a member of Superman's Regime
    (while all the other Titans (excluding Raven) were killed in
    Metropolis before Superman's reign) and was first seen with Raven
    torturing Deathstroke until they were defeated by Green Lantern. The
    main universe Cyborg ends up in the Regime's reality where he ends
    up fighting the alternate Deathstroke and Lex Luthor until his
    Justice League teammates and the alternate Batman arrive and clear
    things up. Cyborg accompanies Deathstroke into taking over the
    Watchtower where Cyborg fights the Regime's Catwoman and Cyborg. One
    combat sequence sees the Cyborgs of two worlds attempting to hack
    each other's implants to a standstill; neither succeeding, they
    decide to fight purely physically, culminating in the 'prime' Cyborg
    defeating his counterpart. After the Regime was defeated, the main
    Cyborg pays a visit to the alternate Lex Luthor's grave. In his
    single player battle ending, Cyborg leads the assault on the
    Fortress of Solitude to defeat the remaining forces of
    Superman's regime. He uses Kryptonian technology to upgrade his
    cybernetics, and finds out that he can control an army of Superman's
    robots, which he will use to bring justice to the world.
-   Cyborg appears as a main and (Wii U only) playable character in
    Scribblenauts Unmasked. He is a member of the Justice League who
    first appears on the Watchtower. When Maxwell arrives, so do
    Doppelganger and Deathstroke. They arrive in search of a starite.
    Luckily for Maxwell, they do not find it but they get away and
    spring Amazo from his Watchtower cell. Maxwell assists Cyborg in
    defeating Amazo. Later, Cyborg is hacked by Brainiac, leaving him
    unable to move. As such, he is the only Justice Leaguer who does not
    fight their nemesis again. He is fixed by Maxwell, fortunately. When
    Brainiac teleports the rest of the Justice League, Cyborg attempts
    to suggest bringing alternate versions of the Justice League to
    defeat Brainiac, but he to is teleported before he can finish
    his sentence. Fortunately, Maxwell and Lily figure out what he
    was saying. Cyborg later bids Maxwell and Lily farewell with the
    rest of the Justice League.
-   Cyborg appears as a playable character in the video game Infinite
    Crisis.

Lego

-   Cyborg appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 2:  Super
    Heroes, voiced by Brian Bloom. He is sent to Gotham by Martian
    Manhunter and climbs Wayne Tower with Green Lantern, Robin and
    Batman as they chase the Joker robot. They then jump off and battle
    the Joker robot while free falling. He finally helps defeat Joker
    and Lex Luthor on the ground outside Wayne Tower.
-   Cyborg appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, with Bumper Robinson reprising the role. He is one of the
    main story characters.
-   Cyborg is a playable character in Lego Dimensions. Bumper Robinson
    will reprise his role once more.

Toys

-   A Cyborg figure, in AU style, was released in the Justice League
    Unlimited toyline in late 2009.
-   A Cyborg figure was released by  Direct in 2001 as part of its
    Teen Titans series, and he was also included in the 2003 Classic
    Teen Titans Box Set, presented in gold bionics as opposed to his
    standard silver.
-   Two versions of the character were released in Mattel's  Universe
    Classics action figure line: a standard version, and a KB Toys
    exclusive version that featured Cyborg with a "sonic arm".
-   In the 1980s, a very hard-to-find version was made for the Kenner
    Super Powers range.
-   A Cyborg figure based on The New 52 justice league was available in
    late 2012.

Miscellaneous

-   Cyborg is a member of the Super Friends in the direct-to-video
    original animation  Super Friends: The Joker's Playhouse (2010)
    voiced by Phil LaMarr.
-   Cyborg appears in all three Robot Chicken  Specials
    voiced by Abraham Benrubi in the first two. In the first one he is
    seen in the intro with the series mascot teaming up to take down
    Bitch Puddin' and Deathstroke. In the battle at the Aquaman
    appreciation party, he is attacked by the Humping Robot, another
    staple character from the series. In the second one, there's a skit
    which shows Cyborg going to the bathroom by writing "Poop" on a
    floppy disk that comes out and he drops it into a toilet. In the
    battle against Starro on the beach, Cyborg's quickly incapacitated
    when he touches the water. In the third one, he strips down most of
    his mechanical body before taking a shower and crawls on his nubs on
    the floor.

