EMPRESS is a fictional character, a superheroine in the 
universe. She first appeared in Young Justice #16 (January 2000).


Fictional character biography

ANITA FITE is the daughter of Donald Fite, of the All Purpose
Enforcement Squad, who, with his partner Ishido Maad, hounded Young
Justice throughout the team's early days. (The partners' names, Fite 'n'
Maad, are a deliberate pun by Peter David on the phrase "fightin' mad";
the name Anita Fite is also a pun â€“ "I need a fight".) She is usually
written as speaking with a Haitian patois.

She first appeared in the pages of Young Justice, saving Wonder Girl
from dying of a poisonous snakebite.

Shortly afterward during Young Justice's visit to the Olympics to
support their former teammate, Cissie King-Jones, she met the team out
of costume, and her father (who claimed to not know of her superheroic
activities) let her secret identity slip ("Empress" having been a
childhood nickname her mother had given her).

It was revealed that Anita had become a superheroine due to the
inspiration of Cissie King-Jones, the former Arrowette. Anita had seen
Cissie stop a thief in a mall, and was so impressed that she began to
use her natural abilities to fight for good. There was tension at first
between Cissie and Anita - Cissie thinking that Anita had simply wanted
to replace her in Young Justice - but the girls quickly came to an
understanding and became friends.

Anita remained a member of Young Justice for the rest of its run, even
through the death of her father, by Agua Sin Gaaz, the same villain who
had killed her mother years before. Gaaz retreated to the island of
Zandia, a haven for supervillains. Due to an invasion force of dozens of
teenaged superheroes, Anita, Maad and a few others were able to bring
her parents back in a fashion, reincarnated into infant bodies. She
became a guardian to them, with the help of friends and her father's
partner. During her time in Young Justice, she even developed a certain
friendship with Li'l Lobo during his time on the team.

In January 2006, Empress appeared as backup in the fight to save Gotham
City from wild magic in the Infinite Crisis special follow-up to Day
of Vengeance, although a coloring error depicted her as caucasian.
Anita appeared again in Infinite Crisis #6, when the world's mystics
joined together at Stonehenge to usher in the new age of magic by
summoning the new Spectre and his host.

Anita is seen hanging out with Cissie and Cassie. Anita and Cissie
appear again, helping Cassie realize that she has at last gotten past
Superboy's death. Both Anita and Cissie appear at the end of the Wonder
Girl mini-series, both back in costume as they help Wonder Girl defeat
the Furies alongside Robin, Supergirl and several other allies.

Anita appears in Final Crisis along with Mas Y Menos and Sparx in a
failed attempt to launch the League of Titans. The four are defeated by
Mirror Master and Doctor Light. She next appears in the pages of
Supergirl #33 (July 2008). After her parents-turned-infants are
kidnapped, Empress seeks out Supergirl to help her retrieve them.
However, it is revealed that Empress was in truth leading Kara to a
trap, in order to get her parents back. Fortunately, Anita
double-crossed the villain and aided in saving Kara and her parents.1


Powers and abilities

Empress can telepathically command people to do simple actions (like
forcing someone to stand still or shut up) through a piece of the
Anti-Life Equation she holds in her brain. She is also an accomplished
Vodou practitioner, which she learned from her mother and grandmother,
allowing her to teleport and perform other spells. She is an
accomplished fighter with her sword baton ("Emperor's Stick").

