ENEMY ACE is  property about the adventures of a skilled but
troubled German anti-hero and flying ace in World War I and World War
II, HANS VON HAMMER, known to the world as "THE HAMMER OF HELL."


Overview

Enemy Ace first appeared in Our Army at War # 151, (February 1965) It
was a backup story that quickly gained popularity. As a World War I
pilot flying for the Germans, his stories told the German side of the
war, in which Hans von Hammer was a man of honor and chivalry, a flying
knight in his Fokker Dr.I, but he was haunted by his duties and the
constant death surrounding them. [The cover of Star Spangled War
Stories #148, highlighting the fatal fall of Von Hammer's puppy,
Schatzi.] The early series stories centered around World War I Air
Combat and the strategies, tactics and honor employed by the early
knights of the air. The stories were often a stark contrast between the
dark brooding character Von Hammer and his softer, kinder side as in
Star Spangled War Stories No 148 where Von Hammer rescues a little dog
he names "Schatzi" and proceeds to befriend him, even introducing him to
his dark hunting companion the gray wolf who accepts little Schatzi
rather than eating him. But the Von Hammer stories were not big on happy
endings, and Von Hammer goes on to lose Schatzi in a haunting scene by
dropping him accidentally from his Fokker during air combat. He grieves
the loss of the dog, then proceeds to massacre the remaining British
pilots in an act of bloody revenge. Von Hammer was a dark character,
portrayed as the inevitable result of war.

Unlike most comic book characters, Von Hammer does not have an
arch-enemy, though a French pilot known as The Hangman was a persistent
opponent. The majority of Von Hammer's opponents followed the same code
of honor as he did, which included not attacking a helpless pilot.

Created by Robert Kanigher and Joe Kubert, the Enemy Ace was taken
loosely from the real-life Red Baron, Manfred von Richthofen. Both flew
Crimson Red Fokker DR1 Triplanes. Both were of aristocratic blood. Both
awarded themselves a trophy with each downed enemy plane. Both were the
highest scoring flying ace of the First World War. The main difference
between the two was that Von Hammer survived to old age, whereas Von
Richthofen was shot down and killed before the war ended.

The character's stories have been praised as among 's strongest war
stories of the Silver Age of comic books. He was revived for a few
graphic novels. The first was Enemy Ace: War Idyll (1990) by George
Pratt, where Hammer is revealed to have lived until 1969, dying
peacefully upon turning over his memoirs and concluding his interviews
with a troubled Vietnam War veteran-turned-journalist.

Tim Truman's Guns Of The Dragon 1998 mini-series saw Von Hammer in
1927 China teaming up with an elderly Bat Lash and Biff Bradley, the
brother of Slam Bradley against Miss Fear and Vandal Savage on an
adventure to Dinosaur Island.

[Cover of Enemy Ace - War in Heaven TPB.] A more recent work is Garth
Ennis's Enemy Ace: War in Heaven (2001), with art by Chris Weston and
Russ Heath. Here, von Hammer's character and story arc is based on
several real-life German pilots', notably Adolf Galland. The series
recounts the pilot's activities during World War II where he is
persuaded to once again fight as a pilot of the Luftwaffe. Von Hammer is
placed in charge of his own gruppe and initially serves on the Eastern
Front. Though no friend to the Nazi regime, he rapidly amasses numerous
kills flying a red-painted Me-109 against the Russians, and later in
defense of Germany (flying a scarlet Me-262) against American bombers.
Nevertheless, von Hammer becomes increasingly disillusioned as he
continues to witness the horrors of war. During a battle, he is shot
down and crashes near Leningrad. In his attempts to make it back to his
own lines, he witnesses many horrible sights on the Russian front,
including cannibalism. In 1945, after bailing out of his damaged
aircraft, he inadvertently parachutes into the Dachau concentration camp
and is outraged to discover the German perpetration of the Holocaust. He
proposes a mutiny upon returning to his airbase and later surrenders his
Jagdverband to advancing Allied troops, namely Sgt. Rock's company,
after setting fire to the fighter unit's remaining aircraft. These
graphic events were rare, except during the underground comix era, to be
seen in comic books.

Recently, in issue #139 of the latest Robin series, von Hammer's
great-granddaughter Lieutenant Ilsa von Hammer appeared as part of a
group of soldiers that included Johnny Cloud's grandson and a legendary
soldier known only as the Veteran. This group, handling missions which
may be more unusual than the normal military is equipped for, recruits
Robin to assist on their missions.

Another possible descendant appears in Superman #689. Will Von Hammer
works as a private investigator in Berlin. He possesses some superhuman
invulnerability as he is also the descendant of World War II hero Stormy
Foster.

Von Hammer makes a guest appearance of sorts as an opponent of General
Wade Eiling's father in a tale set during the First World War

In 2008, he is featured in Bruce Jones' The War that Time Forgot. He
also appears in Booster Gold in 2009, during World War I. When Booster
is thrown back in time and caught in the middle of the war, alongside
Cyrus Lord, the ancestor of Maxwell Lord, von Hammer aids their escape
from captivity behind German lines rather than abet their torture and
further stain his hands with blood.


von Hammer's Aircraft

-   Fokker Dr.I—World War I
-   Messerschmitt Bf 109F—Early World War II
-   Messerschmitt Bf 109G—Eastern Front
-   Messerschmitt Me 262—Used late war until surrender.

Note: Not only are all of Von Hammer's aircraft painted bright red, his
World War II aircraft lacked the standard swastika insignia on the tail,
which causes friction with one of his officers who is fervently loyal to
the Nazi Party._


Collected editions

There have been a number of trade paperback collections as well as
original graphic novels:

-   Enemy Ace: War Idyll (by George Pratt, graphic novel, 128 pages,
    harover (1990), softcover (1995), ISBN 0-930289-78-1)
-   The Enemy Ace Archives (by Robert Kanigher and Joe Kubert):
    -   Volume 1 (212 pages, October 2002, harover,
        ISBN 1-56389-896-9) (Collects: Our Army at War (1952) #151,
        #153, #155; Showcase (1956) #57-58; Star-Spangled War
        Stories (1952) #138-142)
    -   Volume 2 (196 pages, September 2006, harover,
        ISBN 1-4012-0776-6) (Collects: Star Spangled War
        Stories (1952) #143-145, #147-150, #183, #200) The copy on
        the dust jacket does not accurately reflect the contents. It
        says "Completing the collection of all of the original
        Kanigher/Kubert Enemy Ace tales (and adding in collaborations
        with artists Neal Adams, Russ Heath and Frank Thorne), this
        volume's ten stories display some of comics' greatest talents at
        the peak of their creative powers..." The book contains 13
        stories, skipping the two stories by Kannigher and Kubert from
        Our Army at War #146 and not including any stories by
        Neal Adams.
-   Enemy Ace: War in Heaven (by Garth Ennis and Robert Kanigher, with
    art by Chris Weston, Russ Heath, Christian Alamy and Joe Kubert,
    collects 2-issue mini-series and Star Spangled War Stories #139,
    128 pages, 2003, ISBN 1-56389-982-5)
-   Showcase Presents: Enemy Ace Volume 1 (552 pages, Black & White,
    January 2008, ISBN 978-1-4012-1721-1)(Collects: Detective
    Comics (1937) #404; Men of War (1977) #1-3, #8-10, #12-14,
    #19-20; Our Army at War (1952) #151, #153, #155; Showcase (1956)
    #57-58; Star Spangled War Stories (1952) #138-145, #147-150, #183,
    #200; Unknown Soldier #251-253, #260-261, #265-267)


In other media

Television

-   Enemy Ace appears in the teaser of the Batman: The Brave and the
    Bold episode "Aquaman's Outrageous Adventure" voiced by John
    DiMaggio. Enemy Ace tries to shoot down Batman's Batplane before he
    convinces him to team up to destroy an alien cannon. After Batman
    leaves, Enemy Ace vows to battle him when they meet again.

Toys

-   A deluxe action figure has been released which includes Black Wolf
    and a smaller scale version of his Fokker DR-1.

Novels

-   Von Hammer appears as a vampire in Kim Newman's Anno Dracula
    universe novel The Bloody Red Baron, alongside other fictional
    German pilots and von Richthofen himself.

