GARTH RANZZ, also known as LIVE WIRE and LIGHTNING LAD is a fictional
comic book superhero appearing in books published by , usually
those featuring the Legion of Superheroes, a 30th and 31st century group
of which he is a founding member. He has the superhuman ability to
generate electricity, usually in the form of lightning bolts. Created by
writer Otto Binder and artist Al Plastino, he first appeared in
Adventure Comics #247 (April 1958) under his original codename
LIGHTNING BOY.


Fictional character biography

Silver Age

[Lightning Lad's origin.] Lightning Lad is a founding member of the
Legion of Super-Heroes along with Saturn Girl and Cosmic Boy. Born on
the planet Winath, he is the twin brother of fellow Legionnaire Ayla
Ranzz (Lightning Lass), the younger brother of the supervillain Mekt
Ranzz (Lightning Lord), and the father of two sets of twins; Sons
Garridan (Validus) and Graym Ranzz and daughters Dacey and Dorrit Ranzz.

Early in the Legion's history, he sacrificed himself battling Zaryan the
Conqueror, but was later resurrected by the sacrifice of Proty,
Chameleon Boy's shapeshifting pet. However, a later retcon revealed that
Proty's mind had actually taken over Lightning Lad's form.

An incident against a monster dubbed the "Super Moby Dick of space"
resulted in the loss of Lightning Lad's right arm, which was replaced
with a bionic appendage. He eventually had his arm regrown, but in the
interim a criminal scientist used the situation to hypnotize Lightning
Lad into acting as the super criminal Starfinger who used the bionic arm
as a weapon. After the Great Darkness Saga, his son was abducted by
Darkseid and he was subsequently transformed into the monster Validus.

During the "Five Year Gap" following the Magic Wars, Earth fell under
the covert control of the Dominators, and withdrew from the United
Planets. A few years later, the members of the Dominators' highly
classified "Batch SW6" escaped captivity. Originally, Batch SW6 appeared
to be a group of teenage Legionnaire clones, created from samples
apparently taken just prior to Ferro Lad's death at the hands of the
Sun-Eater. Later, they were revealed to be time-paradox duplicates,
every bit as legitimate as their older counterparts. After Earth was
destroyed in a disaster reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a
millennium earlier, a few dozen surviving cities and their
inhabitants reconstituted their world as New Earth. The SW6 Legionnaires
remained, and their version of Lightning Lad assumed the code name LIVE
WIRE. Unlike the adult Garth, he did not possess Proty's mind or
personality. Thus, the teenage Live Wire was far more reckless and
rebellious than any previous depiction of Garth.

Zero Hour - Reboot

In the aftermath of Crisis on Infinite Earths Superman's origin was
revamped and Superboy was erased from Superman's past. Unfortunately,
the Legion's history greatly revolved around Superboy, and that version
of the character was retconned into being part of a "pocket universe", a
solution which caused several continuity errors. After the Zero Hour
miniseries, Legion history was completely rebooted. Garth's new history
started when the twins went with Mekt on a trip in their parents' new
space cruiser and became stranded on the barren planet Korbal after the
cruiser's power cells drained. Ayla suggested that they use the
"Lightning Beasts" (the only living things on the planet) in an attempt
to recharge their cruiser. The only result of this, however, was that
all three were found in comas the following day as a result of massive
electrocution.

Months later, Garth and Ayla awoke simultaneously to find that Mekt had
awoken around a week earlier, displayed electrical powers like the
Beasts, threatened the staff, and vanished. After hearing this, they
kept the fact that they had developed similar powers from their parents
before Garth, thinking that the lightning had corrupted Mekt somehow and
would soon corrupt them and refusing to believe that Mekt had developed
into a sociopath just because he had been a "solo" on a world of twins,
ran away from home to find Mekt (telling his parents he was going to
visit his Aunt Ryth), despite Ayla's attempts to dissuade him.

Legion

Hearing that Mekt might be on Earth, he got on a shuttle bound for Earth
via Titan, and met Rokk Krinn there. The two hit it off immediately, but
although he developed a crush on her at first sight, Imra Ardeen gave
him a frosty reception. Nonetheless, when she shouted that four
"maintenance men" were actually assassins after R.J. Brande, the three
worked together to stop them. This gave Brande an idea. Shortly after, a
bar-room brawl caused Garth to be arrested, but just as his cellmates
were about to beat him up, Triad-Orange came and posted his bail -
Brande wanted a word. There, he found the other two Luornus had fetched
Imra and Rokk. Brande, a follower of the 21st Century "Heroic Age",
proceeded to talk the three of them into founding "a Legion of Heroes.
Super-Heroes," with Garth taking the codename LIVE WIRE.

Despite early tension between him and Saturn Girl, Garth's initial
period with the Legion passed with little trouble, until his sister
showed up. At this point, they were only permitted to have one
Legionnaire per world and Garth, classed as a runaway, was not who
Winath wanted to represent them. Ayla, codenamed SPARK, was apologetic,
but neither of them had much choice in the matter and after he nearly
leveled Legion Plaza in his fight with Ultra Boy (after UB had
threatened Ayla), he quit rather than embarrass Rokk or Imra any more by
letting them plead to let him stay.

Solo

After this, he joined Leland McCauley's Workforce to try and get the
money to follow Mekt again, but only stayed with them a short time
before McCauley's complete lack of morals became too much and he quit.
Shortly afterward, he went to ask Brande if he could borrow a ship to
find his brother. Since several stargates (the standard means of
traveling faster than light, which Brande manufactured) had recently
been destroyed and Brande didn't want to take any chances, he turned him
down, but told him to go and visit Saturn Girl, who was in the hospital,
having been mentally regressed to childhood by the strain from shutting
down the Composite Man's mind. Upon seeing her have a toddler-style
temper tantrum, though, he could not bring himself to go in.

Shortly after, several Daxamites attacked Earth, and when Garth visited
Legion HQ to see if he could help, he was given a flight ring by Rokk
and ordered to go and see Imra (who he'd seen pleading for Garth
earlier). When she saw him, she threw her arms around him, and, by
telling her that the Legion needed her - and that HE needed her - he
talked her back to sanity.

At the end, the three founders stood on Legion HQ as Saturn Girl called
the Daxamites there, just in time for Element Lad and Brainiac 5 to send
them to a planet where they would be powerless, ending the threat.

Mekt

In the aftermath, however, he was once more forced off the team --and
stung by Ayla's charge that he talked a good game on finding Mekt, but
never actually did anything about itâ€”- he went on his travels again to
try once more to find his wayward brother. After spending 27060 credits
in his search, he found himself on the planet Bisbe, having been robbed
of his last 512 credits. When trying to get his money back, he was
arrested for murder under Mekt's name. Rather than protesting that he
wasn't Mekt, he stayed silent, and just as the truth was discovered,
Mekt broke through the wall and killed the police officer who was trying
to dissuade Garth from taking Mekt's fall. When Garth saw just how
insane Mekt had become, he tried to blast him, but was knocked out by
his brother. Meanwhile, Ayla was told of Garth's arrest and the cop's
electrocution, and she rushed straight to Bisbe.

Garth awoke just as they were entering Korbal's orbit, where Mekt
started killing more beasts to increase his own power, so he would be
the only one with lightning powers, a plan that did not involve Garth or
Ayla. As Garth realized this, several Science Police cruisers flew
overhead announcing that he was under arrest for the murder of a
policeman. Mekt immediately began to down the cruisers, while Garth
pleaded with Mekt to stop. Finally, when Ayla showed up, a ranting Mekt
attacked her. Garth was finally forced to face the truth about Mekt, but
Mekt, now more powerful than both of the twins together, retaliated by
vaporizing Garth's right arm. Ayla grabbed Mekt's laser pistol and shot
him in the leg, delaying him while she saw that Garth's wound had
cauterized itself. Finally, as Mekt prepared to finish them off, Garth
prompted Ayla to hold his remaining hand and let their powers run
together freely. The resulting blast was enough to not only knock Mekt
off his feet, but completely discharge him (not to mention turn his hair
white). Mekt was finally arrested by the S.P., and (after a short stay
in hospital) Garth was cleared of all charges.

While he was recovering from the ordeal, and getting used to his
artificial arm, he was contacted by Cosmic Boy, who knew that President
Chu was up to something, but he didn't know what and thus had to play
along with her wishes (which included keeping Live Wire off the team).
Rokk thus had Live Wire put together a secret "Rescue Squad." After
recruiting Ultra Boy, Element Lad, Andromeda, Valor and XS, they saved
the Legion from the Fatal Five. Both teams then divided into three, and
all the heroes combined to have Chu impeached and arrested, and to
prevent her (with the Fatal Five's help) from reviving the Braal-Titan
War. R.J. Brande was then reluctantly drafted as the new U.P. president,
and his first act was to abolish the U.P.-installed membership
restrictions on the team, allowing Garth to rejoin.

Garth was killed during the "Legion Lost" storyline, sacrificing himself
in battle with the Progenitor (actually an insane Element Lad). A few
crystals were left from the destruction of the Progenitor, which Kid
Quantum took with her upon the Lost Legion's return to the "first"
galaxy; she left the crystals on Shanghalla (the heroes' graveyard). It
turned out Garth's essence survived in the crystals and Jan's body
regrew but with Garth's mind. He was apparently able to use both the
Element Lad and Lightning Lad powers in the new crystalline body. His
relationship with other Legionnaires, including Saturn Girl, was
strained due to his outward resemblance to the Progenitor.

In the Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds miniseries, the post-Zero Hour
Legion is brought to the pre-crisis Legion's timeline, to help battle
Superboy Prime and the Legion of Super-Villains. During this time, the
pre-crisis Brainiac 5 uses a specially charged lightning rod to increase
the transmutation ability of Element Lad's body, allowing Garth to
mutate the body itself into a match for his own.

Threeboot

In the 2005 Waid/Kitson revamp, Garth Ranzz (again as LIGHTNING LAD)
remains a charter member of the galactic youth movement the Legion has
become. (It is revealed that he coined the first Legion mottoâ€”"Eat it,
Grandpa!") He and Saturn Girl share an intimate connection, and Garth
notes that one has to be "way honest" to date a telepath. He is
protective of his twin, Light Lass, and bears a slight grudge against
Brin Londo for his treatment of Ayla. One of the Legion's fiercest
fighters, he almost single-handedly routed the terrorist group Terra
Firma in their first skirmish with the Legion. Made acting leader in the
wake of the Lemnos crisis, it was Lightning Lad who signed the accord
which officially named the Legion as an arm of the United Planets and
saved hundreds of Legionnaires from being brutally deported by the
Science Police. He is the Legion member who has logged the least time on
Earth, tending to prefer exploring space, as if searching for something,
revealed to be his older brother, Mekt, who ultimately came to Earth,
himself, leading his own super team known as "The Wanderers." This fact,
and his almost total dedication to the Legion's cause puts a serious
strain on his relationship with Saturn Girl, eventually putting her in
Ultra Boy's arms.

Post-"Infinite Crisis"

The events of the 2005â€“2006 "Infinite Crisis" storyline restored a close
analogue of the Pre-"Crisis on Infinite Earths" Legion to continuity, as
seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America
and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Lightning Lad is included in
their number, and is still married to Saturn Girl.

Garth later escorts Superman back to the present, where the two take to
the time to reminisce on certain teenage misadventures in the Fortress
of Solitude. The two are then joined by Batman, who reveals that the
bodies of Karate Kid and Una were found in Gotham City. Garth and Batman
react very hostile towards one another, given Batman's distrust of time
travelers. Garth leaves back to the 31st Century with Karate Kid and
Una's bodies, but not before giving Superman a new flight ring and
giving Batman a veiled warning about upcoming struggles.

In the 2009 revival of Adventure Comics Garth is sent by an imprisoned
Mekt to uncover the truth about whether Mekt was in fact a single birth,
or whether his suspicions are correct that he does have a twin and that
his parents have covered this up. It remains to be seen whether he is
telling the truth, is lying, or has deluded himself into believing this.
If it is true, this revelation would be a significant alteration to the
characters' backstory.


Powers and abilities

Lightning Lad has the ability to generate electricity within his own
body without harming himself. This electricity he is able to discharge
in the form of potent "lightning bolts" (in some undisclosed way his
power prevents these bolts from taking the path of least resistance to
Earth, such that he is able to target objects with great accuracy). He
can also create flashing lettering which can be seen from great
distances. He has occasionally displayed a limited control of weather.
In more recent versions of the character, Garth is also able to direct
his electric powers internally so as to move at superhuman speed, with
his top speed being approximately one-third the speed of light.
Lightning Lad is immune to the harmful effects of electric currents, not
only those currents which he himself generates.

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes he is provided a Legion Flight
Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the vacuum of space and
other dangerous environments.


In other media

Television

-   In Superman: The Animated Series, Lightning Lad made a cameo
    background appearance in the episode "New Kids In Town". He later
    reappeared in an episode of Justice League Unlimited titled "Far
    From Home".

[Lightning Lad in Legion of Super-Heroes]

-   He is part of the core Legion team in the Legion of Super-Heroes
    series, voiced by Andy Milder. Lightning Lad is the Legion's field
    leader in this version of the story. Physically he looks almost
    identical to his earlier comic book counterparts, except for a
    lightning bolt-shaped scar over his right eye which glows when his
    powers are activated. He is also portrayed as brash and hot-headed
    with a somewhat competitive attitude towards Superman, though they
    seem to develop a closer relationship later on. The episode
    "Champions" shows him to be a top "dodecathlete" in the
    Intergalactic Games, a sort of future Olympics. After Saturn Girl is
    left in a coma in season 2, he swears revenge on the people who did
    it to her. In the episode "Chained Lightning," it was revealed that
    he and his brother Mekt had received their powers during an attack
    by Lightning Beasts, during which their sister was presumed to
    have died. Later in that episode, Garth loses his right arm during a
    battle with his brother when Imperiex attacked, and gained a new arm
    called the "Cybernetic 4000" featuring explosive charges and lasers
    all powered by his own electrical abilities (albeit never seen). It
    is revealed to the Legion that Ayla had not perished during the
    Lightning Beast attack as they originally thought, but was instead
    shifted to another state of being, becoming an energy vortex that
    Imperiex attempted to tap into in order to power a new weapon. With
    Mekt's help, Garth was able to restore Ayla back to the way she was
    before the incident.

[Calum Worthy as Garth Ranzz on Smallville]

-   In the CW series Smallville, Lightning Lad was portrayed by Calum
    Worthy. He first appeared with Cosmic Boy and Saturn Girl, in the
    January 15, 2009 episode "Legion", marking his first
    live-action appearance. In the episode, Garth is generally portrayed
    as an overzealous fan of Clark Kent who initially expresses
    disappointment in Clark's attitude before Clark rallies them to help
    him defeat the villain Brainiac. He is the only Legion member to be
    referred to by his full codename.

