JACQUES FOCCART is a comic book character, a superhero in the 
universe and the second to assume the name INVISIBLE KID. He is a member
of the Legion of Super-Heroes in the 30th and 31st centuries. As his
code name suggests, he possesses the superhuman ability to become
invisible.


Fictional character biography

The first Invisible Kid was Lyle Norg, an early member of the Legion who
gained his powers from a chemical serum he invented. His scientific
aptitude helped him cement a friendship with the super-intelligent
Brainiac 5. His abilities made him a valuable asset to the Legion
Espionage Squad, of which he was a permanent member. Norg also served
one term as Legion Leader. He was killed by the monster Validus of the
Fatal Five.

Many years later, Brainiac 5 was approached by Jacques Foccart, a
teenage native of Earth from what was once the francophone African
nation of CÃ´te d'Ivoire. Jacques' younger sister Danielle was suffering
from a life-threatening neurological disorder which had baffled the best
medical experts of the 30th century, and Jacques took her to Brainiac 5
as a last resort. Brainiac 5 rashly decided to utilize a piece of
circuitry from the dismantled machine Computo, a highly advanced
supercomputer he had created years earlier. Computo promptly possessed
Danielle's body. Computo took control of Legion headquarters and the
city of Metropolis and nearly killed several Legionnaires. In order to
save Danielle and the others, Jacques drank Lyle Norg's serum and gained
the power of invisibility. Immediately thereafter, the Legion voted
Jacques onto the team as its newest member. He took the name Invisible
Kid in honor of Lyle.

Within days of Jacques' addition to the team, the Legion faced a new foe
whom they initially referred to as the Master of the Servants of
Darkness. The Servants' Master possessed a myriad of superpowers,
including the ability to generate teleportation tubes out of thin air,
and after one encounter Jacques decided to follow him. The sight of the
real face of the Servants' Master -- later revealed as the ancient
villain Darkseid -- frightened Jacques so deeply that a large strip of
his jet black hair turned permanently white.

Jacques soon learned that, unlike his predecessor, he had also developed
the ability to teleport and shift into other dimensions. This talent
served him well when he and his teammate Wildfire were almost killed by
a Lyle Norg imposter. However, when he caused the death of a criminal by
accidentally teleporting him into space, Jacques had the additional
powers removed. Jacques served as a permanent member of the Legion
Espionage Squad, along with Chameleon Boy, Phantom Girl, and Shrinking
Violet.

"Five Years Later"

During the "Five Year Gap" following the Magic Wars, the Legion
disbanded and Earth's government fell under the covert control of the
Dominators, who had attempted to conquer the planet in the 20th century.
Earth withdrew from the United Planets, and the government gradually
became more repressive. Jacques became the leader of a resistance cell
which included himself, Tyroc, and the former members of the Legion of
Substitute Heroes. He became romantically involved with Drura Sepht, a
Substitute Hero who once called herself Infectious Lass. He successfully
led the resistance to victory over the Dominators, along with the
unlikely assistance of former Legion foe Universo and the members of the
Dominators' highly classified "Batch SW6".

At the time, Batch SW6 appeared to be a group of teenaged Legionnaire
clones, created from samples apparently taken immediately following the
team's first encounter with Universo. Later, they were revealed to be
time-paradox duplicates, every bit as legitimate as their older
counterparts. In any event, the emergence of the SW6 Legionnaires
allowed Jacques to meet their leader -- the real Lyle Norg -- for the
first time.

After the defeat of the Dominators, Jacques became a planetary hero. The
people of Earth rewarded his efforts by making him president of the
planet, with Troy Stewart (Tyroc) serving as vice president. But soon
thereafter, Earth was destroyed in a disaster reminiscent of the
destruction of Krypton over a millennium earlier. A few dozen cities
and their inhabitants survived, and the planet was reconstituted as New
Earth. Eventually, Jacques resigned as president to rejoin the Legion
(where he served as co-leader with Rokk Krinn), and Troy ascended to the
presidency.

Post-Zero Hour

After Legion continuity was completed rebooted by the events of Zero
Hour, Jacques was recast as a close friend of Lyle Norg from their days
in school. Jacques was forced by a rival student to drink Lyle's serum,
which had been calibrated only for Lyle's physiology, as a test to see
if it would be safe for her. Although Jacques was believed to have been
killed by the serum, he was saved by the Intelligence Division. The
serum worked differently for him than for Lyle, granting him the ability
to become undetectable by any means, though this ability causes him
severe pain to use. He continued to work for EarthGov's Intelligence.

Post-Infinite Crisis

Jacques has not appeared in the "Threeboot" Legion continuity which
began in 2005. However, the events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries
have restored a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths
Legion to continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in
Justice League of America and Justice Society of America, and in the
"Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics.
Jacques is included in their number. However, the events of the "Five
Years Later" era (including Jacques' rise to the presidency of Earth)
are no longer part of mainstream  continuity.


In other media

The Jacques Foccart version of the Invisible Kid has made background
appearances in the "Lightning Storm" and "Substitutes" episodes of the
Legion of Super Heroes animated television series.

