JACK T. CHANCE is a fictional character featured in comic books
published by . He is a Green Lantern from the world of
Garnetâ€”also known as Hellhole. Physically, he is a tall, blue-skinned
humanoid. Other distinguishing features include a trademark trench coat,
what appear to be brown leather pants, and a skull around his neck. He
first appears in Green Lantern Corps Quarterly #1 in the summer of
1992. The story was entitled "Layin' Down the Law".

Created by John Ostrander, Chance is loosely based upon another
Ostrander character named GrimJack.


Fictional character biography

Green Lantern of Garnet

Jack T. Chance is from the planet Garnet, also known as 'Hellhole'
because it is one of the worst criminal worlds in existence. Repeatedly
the Guardians of the Universe dispatched Green Lanterns to this planet
in hope of redeeming the world, but each attempt ended in failure,
usually fatally for the Green Lantern. The last Guardian-sent agent,
Pathavim Seth-Ottarak, used his dying breath to instruct his ring to
find a replacement among Hellhole's inhabitants uniquely suited to the
challenges of the world (in other words, one not limited by the Green
Lanterns' usual moral strictures). The ring chose Jack T. Chance. When
the ring bonded with him it created a standard Green Lantern uniform and
explained his duties to him. Chance rejected the idea of a uniform,
refusing to wear anything other than his own trashy clothes with a
single small added badge.

Chance hunted down the man who killed his predecessor, intending to kill
him in turn, only to find the ring had a failsafe against lethal force.
Further, the ring offered no protection against his opponent's yellow
bullets. Thus Chance fell back on traditional methods and used a crude
firearm to shoot the man dead. This became Jack's standard methodology
as he went about pacifying Garnet, wearing down his targets with the
powers of the ring then delivering a killing blow with a sidearm.

When news of this reached the Guardians, Chance was quickly recalled to
Oa for judgement. The Guardians decided Chance would be subjected to
rigorous training and a probationary period before he was allowed to
continue serving with the Green Lantern Corps. Chance in turn threatened
to simply quit if forced to play by their rules and pointed out his
brutal approach was the first thing that had ever worked on Hellhole.
The Guardians conceded they lacked a suitable alternative candidate to
serve as Garnet's Green Lantern, and had no choice but to appoint Chance
as Green Lantern of his planet. Chance and the Guardians brokered a deal
whereby he was restricted to his planet (other Lanterns covered whole
sectors). His deeds were also subject to reviews to ensure he was not
using 'questionable methods'.

Sometime later, while doing his duties on Garnet, he had the displeasure
of encountering Lobo, and true to form the two got into a fight. Chance
had the upper hand because of his ring and was enjoying the one-sided
fight. The fight took a turn for the worse when Lobo realized that the
ring had a weakness to yellow. Lobo covered himself in the yellow blood
of a downed citizen, and defeated Chance. Knowing that he would be in a
bad way when Lobo was finished with him, he ordered his ring not to
forget anything important when the ring would put him back together.
After winning the fight, Lobo had the idea of taking Chance's power ring
before he left 'Hellhole', however, the ring could not be removed from
its wielder's finger. Consequently, Lobo took the whole finger. As Lobo
walked off, the ring informed him that, due to the specific deal the
Guardians had made with Chance, it would not work beyond the parameters
of Garnet's atmosphere. Disappointed, Lobo tossed the finger and ring,
and left the planet. The ring and finger then made their way back to
Chance and reattached themselves.

Emerald Twilight

When Hal Jordan went rogue and headed for Oa, the guardians were
desperate and called Chance, as their most 'ruthless' agent, to stop the
rampaging Jordan. To this end they granted his ring the same abilities
as other members of the Corps, and its power was no longer limited to
Garnet's atmosphere. While he did manage to surprise Jordan, his skill
proved insufficient against his enemy's superior ability. Jordan took
the rings from Chance and the other Green Lanterns, and left them for
dead.

Return and death

[Jack T. Chance is killed.|thumb] However, Chance did not die, and
instead was captured along with fellow LOST LANTERNS, to be used by the
Manhunters as energy for their newly upgraded software. He was freed by
Hal Jordan and Guy Gardner and received a hero's welcome upon his return
to Oa. Even though he and his fellow Lost Lanterns were aware that Hal
Jordan's murderous actions were the result of the influence from the
fear-inducing parasitic energy entity known as Parallax, they still bore
grudges and remained unwilling to trust him again. Chance's return made
the Guardians rethink his status as a probationary member, and he was
finally accepted in the ranks of the Green Lantern Corps.

Chance and his fellow Lost Lanterns were all in the mess hall when the
torchbearer Ion was whisked away by a yellow lantern ring during the
Sinestro Corps attack on Oa. Jack and a select few Green Lanterns
were sent to Qward to rescue Hal Jordan and the Green Lanterns of Earth.
While on Qward they discovered the Torchbearer Kyle Rayner was now
possessed by the fear entity Parallax, which had turned him as murderous
as Hal was. Jack then confronted Parallax and was forced to experience
his repressed fear of an abusive family/childhood. The
Parallax-possessed Rayner then killed Chance and crushed his ring.

Blackest Night

As part of the Blackest Night event, all of the fallen Green Lanterns
in the Oan crypt are reanimated by black power rings in Green Lantern
Corps (vol. 2) #39 (October 2009). Chance is among the many Black
Lanterns shown standing against the Green Lanterns on Oa.


Personal oath

    You who are wicked, evil and mean
    I'm the nastiest creep you've EVER seen!_
    Come one, come all, put up a fight
    I'll pound your butts with Green Lantern's light!_
    Yowza.

