JAKEEM THUNDER (JAKEEM JOHNNY WILLIAMS), initially called J.J. THUNDER,
is a fictional character in the  Universe, a member of the
superhero team the Justice Society of America. Jakeem first appeared in
Flash (vol. 2) #134 (February 1998), and was created by Grant
Morrison, Mark Millar and Paul Ryan.


Fictional character biography

Jakeem Johnny Williams is a precocious teenager from Keystone City --
home of Jay Garrick (the original Flash) and Wally West (one of
Garrick's successors). Jakeem's mother left his father while she was
still pregnant with the boy and he was orphaned when his mother died of
cancer. His aunt Lashawn was then granted custody and his father, Phil,
never knew (and still does not know) about his birth. Jakeem became a
self-reliant latchkey kid who grew up on the streets and adopted a
tough, foul-mouthed attitude in order to survive.

When Johnny Thunder began to lose control over his "genie" Thunderbolt,
because of his declining mental health, he put the genie inside an ink
pen. Without knowing its danger, Jay Garrick gave the pen to Jakeem.

Soon thereafter, the world was threatened by Lkz, a blue genie similar
to the Thunderbolt but evil in nature. The Justice League of America and
Justice Society of America united to fight the being, whereupon Jakeem
discovered that the Thunderbolt actually came from the Fifth Dimension
and is controlled by speaking its name (Yz) backwards ("Say You").
Jakeem worked with a small group of JSA members, as they attempted to
stay alive while Yz and Lkz battled throughout space. Jakeem even tried
to punch out Qwsp, a third genie that came to threaten the group.

Qwsp is arrested by Fifth Dimension police. With the assistance of
Captain , Jakeem was able to merge Yz with Lkz, who was controlled
by speaking the phrase So CÃ»l (pronounced "so cool"). The pink-hued Yz
and the blue-hued Lkz formed a new purple genie named Ylzkz, with this
new genie also being controlled by the phrase "so cool."

Justice Society of America

Jakeem somewhat reluctantly joins the Justice Society as a part-time
member. Jakeem is welcomed by the fellow young hero Courtney Whitmore
(the Star-Spangled Kid, who later changes her codename to Stargirl), who
becomes a friend, and positive influence on him. He also benefits from
the guidance of Johnny Thunder himself. He and Hourman Rick Tyler also
build a brotherly friendship. Like Johnny before him, he often causes
trouble by wishing for things without meaning to, due to poorly worded
commands.

During the "Last Laugh" story arc where certain villains in the 
universe have been affected by the Joker's laughing gas, a Jokerized
Solomon Grundy attacks the JSA headquarters. His initial attack involves
dropping the head of the Statue of Liberty outside the doors of the JSA
and knocking out the then-caretaker of the museum Alexander Montez.
Jakeem and Courtney are the only two at the headquarters at the time.
Their fight against Grundy goes badly, as he steals Jakeem's pen and
retreats to the sewers. Jakeem tells Courtney he wants to get the pen
back not because he sees the Thunderbolt as his power, but because the
Thunderbolt is his friend.

During the fight with Grundy, Jakeem is nearly knocked out by the
behemoth. He realizes Courtney is in grave peril and in desperation,
stretches to reach his pen, just out of reach. A purplish-pink wave of
energy appears in his eyes and around the pen, which levitates into his
grasp. Jakeem briefly wonders how this has happened, but decides to
figure it out later. The fight serves as a bonding experience between
the two young heroes. Jakeem has the Thunderbolt fix the statue.

Johnny Thunderbolt

Also in the course of the battle with Grundy, Jakeem unwittingly cures
his predecessor, Johnny Thunder, of his Alzheimer's disease.
Unfortunately, Johnny immediately falls prey to the Ultra-Humanite, who
takes over Johnny's body in order to command the Thunderbolt's powers.
In the "Stealing Thunder" storyline, Jakeem is one of several heroes
left free from Ultra's control. Eventually Jakeem wrests control of the
Thunderbolt back from Ultra, but Johnny Thunder loses his life. Jakeem
then wishes that the Thunderbolt could save Johnny somehow, so the genie
chooses to merge with Johnny, creating a new being with the memories of
both. He later assumes the name JOHNNY THUNDERBOLT. Johnny
Thunderbolt bears Johnny's likeness, though it is not clear how the
personalities of Johnny and the two genies interact, and whether any one
personality is dominant. Johnny's family is informed of his death and a
funeral is held at Valhalla, a cemetery for superheroes. The family does
not know that he lives on as the Thunderbolt. The Thunderbolt eventually
stops displaying Johnny's likeness while still speaking as him.

Father issues

With Johnny's help, Jakeem meets his biological father, Phil, who is now
an engineering student. Jakeem does not reveal his true identity, but he
also meets Phil's wife, Jennifer, and his younger half-brother. He is
torn by his longing to reconnect with his biological father, but fears
he will upset Phil's life.

Infinite Crisis

At the dawn of the Infinite Crisis, the Spectre shunts Jakeem through
his pen into the Fifth Dimension, where he succumbs to the machinations
of Qwsp and becomes a mad tyrant. The Thunderbolt amasses an army
to fight him, including the Thunderbolt's son, SHOCKO and Shocko's wife
PEACHY PET. With the help of the JSA, Jakeem is freed of Qwsp's evil
influence. Among Qwsp's prisoners is Johnny Thunder, apparently
separated from the Thunderbolt and living in the Fifth Dimension. During
the confrontation, Mister Terrific convinces the Thunderbolt to stand up
to Jakeem despite his usual rules, allowing the JSA to reveal Jakeem's
possession by Qwsp and restore him to normal. Upon the JSA's return from
the Fifth Dimension, they find the villain Mordru battling with Nabu.
Jakeem jumps the gun and takes action against the evil wizard (who had
previously slit Jakeem's throat). Jakeem returns the favor by stabbing
Mordru in the throat with his pen, then summons the Thunderbolt,
electrocuting Mordru. Jakeem then asks the Thunderbolt to send Mordru
"somewhere none of us will ever have to see him again," (followed for
the first time by a "please").

Return

When Jakeem and Thunderbolt returned to the JSA, Jakeem was introduced
to the new members of the team that had joined during his absence.
However, he turned angry when he found out there were no rooms for him
to stay in, due to the big roster of the team. He soon met up with the
newest recruit, Lightning, for whom he immediately fell, though she
never returned the feeling. Soon after, in a Thy Kingdom Come story arc,
when William Matthews, otherwise known as Gog, attacked the Brownstone,
Jakeem quickly tried to make Thunderbolt attack him, but was instantly
knocked out by Gog. Later, when the true Gog appeared, Jakeem took a
small part in the ensuing battle, mostly staying in the background.
Jakeem was last seen at Stargirl's birthday party, when he gave her a
picture of him and other new recruits to the team, thanking her for
being a teacher to them.

In Blackest Night: JSA, Mr. Terrific creates a "Black Lantern bomb".
He mentions that Jakeem was the first person to be taken out by Black
Lantern Terry Sloane, as Jakeem has the Thunderbolt's power. Mr.
Terrific used Green Lantern, Dr. Fate, Lightning and Stargirl to create
the successful bomb that had mimicked Thunderbolt's powers. As soon as
it was complete, Mr. Terrific set the bomb off, taking out all the Black
Lanterns in New York City.

Jakeem was not seen with the JSA or the newly formed JSA All-Stars
following Blackest Night, but did make a cameo as one of the mourners
at Damage's funeral.


Powers and abilities

Jakeem has the ability to summon and control a powerful genie in the
form of "Johnny Thunderbolt". The genie can fulfill any wish made by
Jakeem, though he occasionally follows Jakeem's wishes too literally.
The Thunderbolt's abilities have become limited due to certain
limitations according to the new rules of the Tenth Age of Magic.
Hourman stated that Thunderbolt can follow the commands from the
recordings of Jakeem's voice that were recorded on Mr. Terrific's
T-Spheres, although this was never seen in action.

