MINION (real name JARRAS MINION) is a fictional  superhero best
known as a member of the Teen Titans and for giving the Omegadrome armor
to Cyborg. He first appears in New Teen Titans #114 (September 1994),
and was created by Marv Wolfman and Rick Mays.


Fictional character biography

After Jarras Minion's home planet of Talyn (and its long-adversarial
sister planet, Kallas) were destroyed by an energy force, he set out to
find the party responsible. He had cybernetically bonded with the
morphing Omegadrome battlesuit--which had been developed by his
parents--to survive the destruction. His search for a cause of his
planet's demise led him to Earth and ultimately to the party
responsible, Teen Titans villain, Psimon. Donna Troy convinced Minion
not to kill Psimon, who was then taken into custody by the Darkstars.

Leaving repeatedly to travel the galaxy, Minion returned to help
Phantasm defeat an evil version of former Titan, Raven, who was intent
on planting the seeds of Trigon's unborn children into new vessels. With
the help of Minion, the Titans finally defeated Raven. Minion then
stayed with the Titans and became a member in The New Titans #123
(1995).

After a second battle with Raven, Raven, Minion and Garfield Logan
elected to remain in space as traveling companions to Victor Stone, then
known as Cyberion. Minion eventually decided to leave the Omegadrome
suit to Cyberion, who would eventually be forced to "download" himself
into the Omegadrome suit, becoming Cyborg.

After this, Minion continued traveling the galaxy, without the
Omegadrome, and seemingly having re-embraced his pacifist beliefs.

