[First appearance of Miss Fear, Modern Comics #49 (May, 1946), Quality
Comics.] MISS FEAR (or simply, Fear) was a recurring character in
Blackhawk comics (published by Quality Comics, later bought by 
Comics) between 1946 and 1948. Her first appearance in Modern Comics
#49 (May, 1946) told her origin as daughter of the slain leader of an
obscure nation in central Asia. When Blackhawk and his men arrived to
investigate the murder, they found Fear always a half-step ahead on her
vendetta, ruthlessly avenging her father with a Tommy gun.

Further Golden Age appearances by Miss Fear included Blackhawk Comics
issues 13, 14, 17, 19, 20, and 22 (December, 1948). In these stories she
developed a distinctly romantic yet seemingly unrequited interest in
Blackhawk, meanwhile involving and assisting the team in various cases
and missions, usually in central Asia. Fear displayed an impressive
array of skills including flying, horsemanship, martial arts, and
wielding a bullwhip, as well as crack marksmanship. The conclusion of
the final story, however, seemed to imply that she was resigned to
disappointment in carrying a torch for Blackhawk.

In 1998, Miss Fear returned in a somewhat different form in the
four-issue miniseries Guns of the Dragon, by Timothy Truman, starring
Enemy Ace and Bat Lash. Set in China, 1927, this story depicted her as a
young, half-Chinese / half-Caucasian spy in service of the communists.
The plot also involved a recurring Blackhawk villain, the Thunderer, as
well as a brief appearance by Chop-Chop, although his age at that point
seems impossible to reconcile with his later career as Blackhawk's
sidekick. The outcome of the adventure led Fear to reconsider her
loyalty to the communists and suggested her future as a freelance
freedom-fighter. However, her only subsequent appearance thus far has
been in the form of a limited edition 1/6 scale G.I. Joe action figure,
produced by Dreams & Visions in 2003, licensed by Hasbro and .

