MONSTRESS (CANDI PYPONTE-LE PARC III) is a fictional character, a
superheroine in the 30th and 31st centuries of the  universe,
and a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes in the post-Zero Hour
continuity.


Fictional character biography

She is a pampered daughter of a rich industrialist from Xanthu who gains
her abilities and monstrous appearance from an explosion caused by a
gene-altering bomb within a plant on one of Candi's father's labor
farms. The bomb is activated by a protester who was disgusted at the
conditions in the facility.

She joins with Xanthu's Uncanny Amazers Kid Quantum and Star Boy. They
have a friendly competition with the Legion. The two teams fight
Mordru, the Dark Lord. Impressed with the Legion, she asks to join and
is accepted. She helps recruit Kid Quantum. By chance, Element Lad
alters her skin from green to orange. Monstress also befriends the
time-lost Lori Morning.

The aliens known as the Blight attack, causing ten Legionnaires to be
transported to the far-side of the universe. Monstress is featured in
the first eleven issues of the series Legion Lost, detailing what
happened to these ten Legionnaires. Fellow Legionnaire Element Lad had
been separated and tossed through time and space; his personal trip
renders him mad. Monstress, who had developed feelings for Element Lad,
tries to talk him out of his madness. He calls her inferior and kills
her with a touch.

Most of the Lost make it home, they hold a memorial for Monstress and
Element Lad.


Fan reaction

Dan Abnett: "When we took over Legion, Monstress was deeply unpopular.
We'd regularly get letters and posts demanding we bump her off. We
actually liked her, and through 'Legion Lost' we did our best to make
her an appealing, interesting character. When she died, tragically, at
the end of 'Lost,' people were suddenly upset!"

