NIGHT EAGLE is a fictional character from . She first appears
in The Adventures of Superman #586 (December 2000), and was created by
J.M. DeMatteis and Mike Miller. She is a shaman of sorts, with a kinship
with owls.


Fictional character biography

When Satanus tried to corrupt Metropolis with dark magic, Superman tried
to intervene, but was overwhelmed by a powerful spell from the demon. As
globes of dark power engulfed Superman, a flock of barn owls flew in and
destroyed the globes. Superman looked up to see a Native American woman
in an owl-like costume, who told Superman to "You can longer trust your
eyes, you can only trust your heart", before she vanished.

Later, Superman followed an owl to a building, on which the woman stood,
and she introduced herself as "Night Eagle". As magical foes and demons
began attacking Metropolis, she would guide him on how to beat them. But
when Satanus threatened to destroy the "soul of the city", Superman
offered his soul in exchange. The result was that Superman was evil, as
his soul was trapped in Hell.

Night Eagle appeared to Lois Lane and helped her enter Hell. There Lois
helped Superman free himself, and the two defeated Satanus. Night Eagle
then vanished, but not before her face became turned in to the face of
Satanus's sister, Blaze. Night Eagle's current status and identity are
unknown.


Powers and abilities

Night Eagle is an agent of light, a bridge between the physical world
and the afterlife. Night Eagle can see into the afterlife, and see
magical energies. She has the power to fly, and can disperse spells and
dark magic with her owls (who seem to obey her thoughts). She can appear
to one or two people, while being invisible to all others, and cannot be
touched by physical entities.

