NUKLON is the name of two fictional superheroes in the 
Universe.


Albert Rothstein

Godson to Al Pratt (the Golden Age Atom), ALBERT ROTHSTEIN acquired his
powers of super-strength and control over his molecular structure from
his grandfather, a reluctant supervillain known as Cyclotron, allowing
him to fight crime first as NUKLON, and later as ATOM SMASHER.

As Nuklon, Albert was a charter member of Infinity Inc. and subsequently
served in the Justice League. He took the Atom Smasher identity shortly
before the re-founding of the Justice Society of America, of which he
was a charter member.


Gerome McKenna

52 presents Gerome McKenna as one of the first official subjects for
Lex Luthor's "Everyman Project".

Luthor's project grants super-powers to McKenna, who is given the
codename NUKLON after Luthor buys the rights to Infinity Inc. from the
Pemberton Estate.

So far, Atom Smasher and the new Nuklon have yet to meet.

52 Aftermath

Infinity Inc #1 (Sept 2007) reveals that, after Luthor shut down his
Metagene, Gerome went into a deep state of depression and
self-absorption. Gerome discovered that he has gained a new power, the
ability to create a fully functional, independently thinking duplicate
of himself, seemingly without control. As the series progressed, he
managed to create another copy, however this version is dark and amoral,
wishing to replace the original. In #8, the team were presented with new
costumes and names, Gerome's being "Double Trouble". Gerome's dark
double was later captured by Dr. Bud Fogel, and conditioned to be a
fighter in The Dark Side Club. In the series' final issue, the dark
double killed the original, gaining autonomy. However, Fogel then
activated a machine that stripped all but three of the remaining
Everyman subjects of their powers, and the dark double simply faded out
of existence.

