Philip}}

PHILIPPUS is a fictional character owned by . She made her
first appearance in February 1987 as an Amazon character in the Wonder
Woman comic book. The character was created by writer/artist George
PÃ©rez.


Fictional character biography

Amazon origin

3,000 years ago a select few of the Olympian gods, which included
Artemis, Athena, Hestia, Demeter and Aphrodite, took the souls of women
slain throughout time by the hands of men and sent them to the bottom of
the Aegean Sea. The souls then began to form bodies with the clay on the
sea bed. Once they reached the surface the clay bodies became living
flesh and blood Amazons. Philippus was one of these new race of women.
The first to break surface was Hippolyta and thus she was titled as
Queen of the new race. The second Amazon to break surface was
Hippolyta's sister Antiope and she ruled as a second to Hippolyta in all
affairs. Each of the goddesses that created the Amazons blessed them
with personalized gifts: hunting skills (Artemis), wisdom (Athena), warm
homes (Hestia), plentiful harvests (Demeter), and beauty inside and out
(Aphrodite). The Amazons eventually founded the city of Themyscira in
Anatolia and became known as fierce warriors of peace in Turkey, Greece,
and Rome.

Downfall

The jealous and vengeful god Ares soon after tried to discredit the
Amazon's name by having his half-brother demi-god Heracles invade the
Amazons and demean their standing by stealing Hippolyta's symbol of
power: the Golden Girdle of Gaea. When Heracles first approached the
Amazons seeking battle, Hippolyta met him outside the city gates and
tried to reason with him for peaceful negotiations. When this did not
work Heracles attacked the Amazon Queen using his strength to his
advantage. Hippolyta easily turned the tables on him by using her wisdom
and battle skills to subdue him. Still wishing peace, Hippolyta invited
Heracles and his men into their city to celebrate a potential friendship
with a feast. Hiding his anger, Heracles accepted the invitation.

Once in their stronghold, Heracles and his men drugged the wine the
Amazons were drinking and took them prisoner. After the theft of
Hippolyta's Golden Girdle and abuse and rape of the Amazons, Hippolyta
cried out to Athena to help them escape their bonds. Athena said that
she would only aid them on the condition that the Amazons not seek
retribution against Heracles and his men as that would be beneath the
ideals the Amazons were created to stand for. Hippolyta hastily agreed
and the Amazon's bonds were broken and the drugs given wore off. Once
out of their drugged state the Amazons were filled with hate and
revenge. Breaking Hippolyta's oath to Athena, the Amazons began
slaughtering their captors but were upset to find that Heracles and his
general Theseus had returned to their homelands. Philippus was
especially affected by the abuse as she no longer truly trusted the male
species since.

After the slaughter Athena reprimanded the Amazons for disobeying her
orders. She demanded the Amazons serve penance for their actions. Though
Hippolyta agreed to the goddess' wishes, her sister Antiope scoffed at
Athena for being angered at them for killing their rapist captors.
Antiope then denounced all ties to the Olympian gods and said goodbye to
her sister Hippolyta, giving Hippolyta her Golden Girdle of Gaea to
replace the one stolen by Heracles. She left for Greece, along with half
of the Amazon Nation who supported Antiope in her new quest to battle
Heracles and Theseus out of vengeance and to replace Antiope's girdle
with Hippolyta's. Antiope's tribe later became the Amazons of
Bana-Mighdall.

Godly penance

Philippus and the remaining faithful Amazons then went to the sea shore
where the Olympian Gods told them their punishment for going against
their ideals. They were to be given immortality so that they would
forever safeguard a doorway to the underworld called Doom's Doorway. Not
only must they protect anyone from entering, but they must also vanquish
any evils that try to escape. The doorway was on a far-off isolated
island and it would take some time to get there. To guide their way, the
god Poseidon cleared a pathway for them across the seas. Once they
arrived at the island the Amazons created a new city and named their new
home Themyscira, after their previous fallen city. This way of life
continued for 3,000 years.

After the Captain of the Guard named Egeria was killed while stopping a
monster from escaping from Doom's Doorway, Philippus was promoted to the
rank of Captain in her place. Philippus took the job very seriously
and later became General of Hippolyta's armies. Though Philippus has
always respected and revered her Queen, over time Philippus' feelings
for Hippolyta grew into love. Whether that love became physical at
all over the 3,000 years on the island has never been revealed.

Life on the island

During the 1940s while guarding Doom's Doorway yet another creature
attempted to escape. Unbeknowest to the island's citizens an American
woman named Diana Rockwell Trevor crash landed on the island. While
exploring the island she discovered the Amazons battling the creature.
She used her hand gun to temporarily stop the monster from killing
Philippus. The creature was able to kill Diana though but her
distraction allowed the Amazons to finally defeat the creature and seal
the doorway again. The Amazons held the stranger in high regard once
things settled. Philippus particularly felt indebted to Diana and later
learned how to use the hand gun.

Philippus was constantly at odds with Hippolyta's personal bodyguards
known as The Circle: Alkyone, Myrto, Charis, and Philomela. While
Hippolyta saw their devotion as endearing, Philippus saw through their
insanity and gave them little respect. They in turn showed the same
hostility toward Philippus. When Hippolyta was given her daughter Diana
as a gift from the gods Philippus openly loved the new Princess as did
most of the Amazons on the island. She could see though that the child's
presence greatly disturbed the Queen's bodyguards and took it upon
herself to watch them at all times. When Philippus suspected Alkyone was
going to kill Diana while Hippolyta slept, she attempted to stop them
beforehand but was overwhelmed by them instead. When she regained her
physical composure Philippus called for the royal guard and had them
imprison Hippolyta's bodyguards forever.

Diana

Philippus took an active role in the raising of the Princess. Over the
years she helped Hippolyta teach Diana the ways of the Amazons. When
Diana grew to an age where she used her gods given powers too
off-handedly it was Philippus who went to Hippolyta to ask if she could
teach Diana the lesson of humility. She arranged for a series of
physical tests for Diana. In one situation she had a group of masked
Amazons ambush Diana. When Diana used her powers to defeat the attackers
soundly instead of more gently disable them Philippus had Diana remove
the masks from the unconscious victims. Diana was horrified to discover
that the attackers were in fact Diana's most cherished Amazon "mothers".
Philippus then arranged for a large boulder to roll toward a group of
unaware Amazons. When Diana went to hold back the boulder with her
strength Philippus shot Diana in the leg with an arrow. Both these
situations taught Diana to use her mind instead of her fists when
confronted with a dilemma.

In the 1980s Steve Trevor, the son of Diana Rockwell Trevor, crash
landed on Themyscira. Resentful at the presence of a man on the island
due to her previous rape and slavery at the hands of Herakles' men
thousands of years prior, Philippus was openly vocal about wanting Steve
killed. Hippolyta felt otherwise and called for a Contest to have the
most skilled Amazon escort the man back to his homeland. A disguised
Diana became the Contest winner, which caused heartache to both
Hippolyta and Philippus. As the last trial of the Contest, Philippus
used Diana Rockwell Trevor's hand gun on Princess Diana to see if she
was skilled enough to deflect the bullets. The Princess was able to
deflect each one and went into Man's World with Steve.

Diana returned to the island on several occasions. During one visit the
Olympian god Zeus attempted to rape Diana. When Hippolyta defied the
Olympian Philippus advised the Queen not to put the rest of the island
at risk. For defying the gods Diana was ordered to go into Doom's
Doorway to defeat the creatures there on her way to an ultimate truth.
Even though no one was allowed to aid Diana on this mission Hippolyta
defied the gods again and attempted to enter behind her. With tears in
her eyes Philippus begged Hippolyta not to enter. Hippolyta refused
causing Philippus to tell her that her heart was breaking as she felt
obligated to stop her even though she felt anguish in battling someone
she loved so dearly. Hippolyta defeated Philippus and aided Diana on her
mission anyway. The two later forgave each other.

Changes

Hippolyta declared that Princess Diana was to act as Themyscira's
Ambassador. Because of Diana's actions with the outside world Hippolyta
also decided to open their borders to outsiders as a gesture of peace.
Philippus and several other Amazons escorted Hippolyta to the U.S. for a
promotional tour. The witch Circe arranged for the Amazons of
Bana-Mighdall to ambush the Themyscirian Amazons and sabotage their
mission by creating chaos in their name. The plan worked and Philippus
was seriously injured. Seen as a dangerous terrorist, Philippus was
hospitalized under strict armed guard. Diana as Wonder Woman was able to
clear things up but the event left a scar on the trust the Amazons had
offered the outside world. The Amazons eventually returned to a life of
isolation on Themyscira.

Some time later the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall were magically transported
to Themyscira by the witch Circe. Once there the Egyptian Amazons
attacked the Themyscirian Amazons in order to claim the island as their
own. During the battle Circe double-crossed the Banas and sent the
entire island of Themyscira into a demon dimension along with both
tribes of Amazons. The two tribes put aside their rivalry in order to
defend themselves against the demons. Once the island was returned to
its original setting the Bana Amazons were given a small portion of the
island to dwell while the remaining Themyscirian Amazons lived in the
city walls. Hippolyta received visions during this period that Wonder
Woman would die. Because of this she had Philippus arrange for a new
contest for the title of Wonder Woman. Philippus was instructed to place
deadfalls along the contest route in order to slow down Diana so that
others might have a chance at winning. Philippus was appalled at
Hippolyta's wishes but followed her Queen's orders. Because of these
actions the Bana Amazon Artemis won the title to be the new Wonder
Woman.

Diana had a huge falling out with her mother and left the island in
anger. Because of this Hippolyta fell into depression and went mildly
insane. Philippus took a more active role in overseeing the island
because of this. Later, when Hippolyta discovered her plotting caused
the death of Artemis her shame grew to the point where she felt she
couldn't lead her people anymore. Hippolyta officially gave rule of
Themyscira over to Philippus and banished herself in a small one
person-sized boat. Philippus took her rule seriously but later admitted
to Diana that she was more comfortable guiding the Amazon armies at war
time than she did the day-to-day rule of an entire nation. When Diana
refused to take over rule of the island Philippus reluctantly continued
to serve as regent Queen.

Chancellor Philippus

Hippolyta eventually returned to Themyscira and took back her crown.
Civil war then broke out between both island tribes due to the
fluctuating rule and growing tensions. In order to end the war Diana and
Hippolyta denounced their crowns and gave over the island to Philippus
and a resurrected Artemis to act as co-rulers. Philippus was given the
title of Chancellor and Archon Eponymous, whereas Artemis was given the
title of Polemarch. It is explained that Archon Eponymous
equates to the Civic Office of a Presidential title, whereas the
position of Polemarch translates to War Leader, similar to the position
of Commander-In-Chief. During their official rule they opened the island
to outworlders, both on Earth and alien worlds. When the alien being
Imperiex invaded Earth during the Our Worlds at War storyline the
Amazons joined in the battle which lead to Hippolyta's death. This
devastated Philippus who took greater ferocity in ending the battle. It
was here that Philippus admitted her feelings for Hippolyta.

Diana stayed on as the island's Ambassador. Because of the Goddess Hera
a large tsunami was close to landing on America's shores. It was stopped
by Wonder Woman but the event caused the U.S. to suspect the Amazons to
have ill will towards them. The U.S. President, Jonathan Vincent Horne,
had Naval battleships position themselves around Themyscira in defense.
Wishing to ease tensions, Philippus, Artemis and Diana met with the U.S.
President. He agreed to remove the battleships if the Amazons agreed to
transfer blue prints on how to create their own Purple Ray. Believing
the U.S. would use the Purple Ray as a weapon, the Amazons gave a firm
"no" in response. Because of this political tensions remained between
the two nations.

Through the machinations of an A.I. satellite called BROTHER EYE, a
military strike was made against Themyscira in an attempt at Amazon
genocide. A large swarm of OMAC units were sent to the island and began
to attack the Amazons as part of the events of Infinite Crisis.
Because of this, as well as the many previous attacks against the island
since Diana had become Wonder Woman, it was decided by Philippus and
Artemis that the entire island of Themyscira and all of its inhabitants
(sans Diana) would be transported to a hidden dimension via the Olympian
and Bana-Mighdallian goddesses. Philippus and the remaining Amazons
thrive in this dimension for a year's time in peace.

Amazons Attack

The witch Circe later entered the Amazons' protected dimension and
revived Queen Hippolyta from death. Circe informed the Amazons that
Diana was being illegally detained by the U.S. government and tortured
until she gave them the secrets of the Purple Ray. Because of this, the
Amazons agreed to give Hippolyta her royal title back, and followed her
instructions to invade Washington, D.C. which brought about the events
of Amazons Attack. Artemis and Philippus were assigned to oversee the
battle, but soon lost faith in Hippolyta when they discovered some of
her actions against Man's World proved to be less honorable. Due to
their failure to follow-through in stopping Hippolyta during the war, a
disguised Granny Goodness cursed all of the Amazons by erasing their
memories and scattering them across the globe with false personas.

With the return of the Olympian gods, Zeus revives the Amazon's memories
several months after their memory wipes and has them return to
Themyscira. With the creation of the Gargareans, Zeus had these new
male Amazons live on both the island of Thalarion and Themyscira. Their
leader Achilles was given rule over both his people and the original
Amazons. To add insult to injury Achilles chose Philippus' old rival
Alkyone to become his Queen. This infuriated Philippus who continued to
refer to Hippolyta as her Queen. Once the Amazon Artemis returned to the
island she helped to organize a coup against the mad Queen Alkyone.
Joined by Achilles and his people, the coup was successful and Hippolyta
was re-crowned as Queen of the Amazons.


Powers and abilities

Philippus has 3,000 years of combat experience providing her expertise
in both hand-to-hand combat as well as with hand-held weapons. As a
Themyscirian Amazon she also possesses immortality that allows her to
live indefinitely in a youthful form, but does leave her open to
potential injury and death depending on her actions. Philippus, as a
Themyscirian, also possesses enhanced strength and intelligence. As
shown by fellow members of her tribe, she has the capability to break
apart steel and concrete with her bare hands, jump over 12 feet from
a standing position, has a high durability factor, enhanced
healing, and the ability to absorb and process a vast amount of
knowledge in a short period of time.

Philippus, in addition to all the Themyscirian Amazons, also possesses
the ability to relieve her body of physical injury and toxins by
becoming one with the Earth's soil and then reforming her body whole
again. The first time Diana does this she prays to her god Gaea
saying: "Gaea, I pray to you. Grant me your strength. You are the Earth
who suckled me, who nurtured and bred me. Through you all life is
renewed. The circle which never ends. I pray you, mother Gaea, take me
into your bosom. Please, let me be worthy._" During writer John Byrne's
time on the comic it was stated that this is a very sacred ritual to the
Themyscirians, only to be used in the most dire of circumstances.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Philippus is
protection of Wonder Woman. Later, she mistakely killed Garth, who had
been himself framed by Artemis for the murder of Queen Hippolyta.
Later, Philippus is found killed by the Atlanteans, before Artemis has
bombs dropped on Themyscira.


In other media

Television

-   Philippus, or Phillipus as she's named in the credits, appeared
    twice as a minor character in the Justice League TV series. Her
    first appearance was in the 2002 episode "Paradise Lost" where she,
    along with the other Amazons, had been petrified by the evil
    sorcerer Felix Faust. Wonder Woman and the Justice League were able
    to undo Faust's spell. No voice artist is credited for Philippus's
    first appearance (although Voice Director Andrea Romano is credited
    as "Amazon Officer"). Philippus next appears in the episode "Fury"
    where she is shown with a party of Amazons hunting the Amazon's
    island for a thief. Her second appearance was voiced by Julianne
    Grossman.

