RAGMAN is a fictional  mystic vigilante and superhero who first
appeared in the short-lived comic-book series named after him. He is one
of a number of Jewish superheroes, and his continuity is tied to that of
' Golem, derived from the Golem of Prague of Jewish
folklore. Ragman was created by writer Robert Kanigher and artist Joe
Kubert.

Ragman is sometimes compared to the other nighttime defender of Gotham
City, Batman.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

A Vietnam veteran, Rory had grown up helping his father, a junk man who
owned a pawn shop named Rags'n'Tatters. His father always dreamed of
making a better life for Rory and constantly promised that someday he
would make Rory rich. While drinking with his friends one night, his
father discovered 2 million dollars stuffed inside an old mattress that
had been pawned just recently. He and his friends decided to hide the
money for Rory, since they were too old to truly benefit from it. The
money turned out to be the loot from an armored car heist and when the
hoods came to the shop one night to get it, they shot down some
electrical wires and used them to torture Rory's father and his friends
into revealing where the money was hidden. Rory arrived soon after and
seeing his father in agony attempted to pull him free from the wires. A
final shock of power ran though the old men and grounded out at Rory,
knocking him unconscious. When he woke his father and friends were dead
and the hoods responsible were gone. Using a costume made out of old
rags (his father had bought it from a stranger before he died and left a
note saying Rory could wear it to a costume party) he became Ragman,
"The Tatterdemalion of Justice."

In this pre-crisis history Rory apparently had gained the physical
abilities of the men who were electrocuted as they were all touching
when the final blow of electricity flew through them and into Rory. He
had the agility of a world class acrobat, the strength of a circus
strongman and the fighting ability of a heavy weight prize fighter.

In his pre-Crisis incarnation, Rory Regan was Irish, not Jewish, as
explicitly stated in the letters page of Ragman #3.

Post-Crisis

RORY REGAN is a ragman, doing good in his community by buying used items
from people who need money. The suit of rags that he wears, as mentioned
above, was originally just a costume made from materials found around
the rag shop, Rags'n'Tatters, that he shared with his father. This was
retconned in a 1991 limited series, and currently each of the patches in
the suit is made from the soul of an evildoer that the Ragman had
punished and absorbed.

The absorption of these souls caused a problem for Rory at one point,
when the evil souls hungered for murder and finally freed themselves of
Ragman. It was only with the support of Batman and Regan's old friend,
Rabbi Luria, that he regained control, though at the cost of Luria's
life. Ragman's powers have increased since then. Currently, he can
absorb souls into his costume. With each new soul added, a rag is added.
He can call upon the souls in his costume to lend him their attributes
or power. He is also a very proficient magic user.

Judgment and vengeance

During the Day of Judgment limited series, Ragman was active in
destroying many of the demons invading Earth. This would earn him the
wrath of the Diablos, a group of demons who style themselves after the
Mafia. Wanting to gain revenge for demons lost during the Day of
Judgment, they attack Ragman, injuring him and tearing off parts of his
costume. They believe him to be dead but this is not true.

Ragman is one of the members of the Shadowpact, a team that formed to
confront the Spectre in  2005 Day of Vengeance limited
series, a lead-up to the seven-issue Infinite Crisis limited series.

During the "Infinite Crisis" storyline, Ragman and Nightshade are seen
standing side by side as part of the line of superheroes defending
Metropolis from attack from dozens of villains.

During the series Day Of Vengeance, Ragman is one of the few
volunteers willing to take on the rampaging Spectre, who has decided
that all magic is evil. During a planning session, he is taken aside by
the Enchantress and given a mystical gun. She entrusts him with it, as
it can kill her if she goes too far with her magic, a scenario she
believes is all too possible. He tells her if she truly turns evil, his
costume will take her. He then tries to kiss her, but his feelings are
not returned and Enchantress even mocks him for it in front of the other
heroes.

Shadowpact

In the Shadowpact series, Ragman, along with his teammates, was
trapped inside a shield of solid blood that grew over the town of
Riverrock, Wyoming. Ragman and the rest of the team spend a very short
period of time inside the shield, but to due to magical after-effects, a
full year passes outside. Various mystical heroes, such as Phantom
Stranger and Rex the Wonder Dog keep watch outside the town's borders.

While inside Riverrock, Rory met an evil counterpart of himself
belonging to the supervillain group that had formed the shield, the
Pentacle. His counterpart is named Bagman. He/it dresses in similar
green garb, and can turn his body to goo and while in this form he
absorbs people. While inside Bagman they either suffocate or they are
digested. Bagman even mentioned how oddly similar the Shadowpact and the
Pentacle are. Rory only survives this encounter because Bagman's boss
does not want the heroes to be killed. After the Riverock encounter,
Rory must deal with the severe disruption to his life, as everyone had
thought he was dead. He, like most of the team, ends up having to find a
new source of income, a place to stay and the oddity of encountering a
memorial statue to the entire team.

In Shadowpact #8, Rory was temporarily trapped in the limbo dimension
of his own cloak. He met the soul of an ancient centurion working off
his crimes. This man, Marcus Liberius, first saved him from the beating
several other of the murderous souls were giving Rory. Marcus reveals
that the cloak was actually the "Great Collector Artifact", which has
been in existence in many forms since the time of Abraham. Ragmen in
Rory's line have been in action since 1812 BCE. Marcus also helped Rory,
who had become disenchanted with the job of collecting corrupted souls,
to see that he is not a punisher but a redeemer â€” allowing a better
afterlife for those who work for it. This work usually takes the form of
suffering on Rory's behalf. For example, Rory had been recently blinded
by magic. Marcus willingly takes this blindness on, adding to previous
injuries he had suffered. This last sacrifice allows Marcus, in the full
view of the rest of the Shadowpact, to ascend to a higher realm.

Rory, along with Nightmaster and Nightshade, attempted to teleport to
Washington D.C to break up a bank robbery. They were trapped mid transit
in the Land of Nightshades. During this time it was suggested that he is
attracted to team member Nightshade.

Trinity

In Trinity #18, Ragman appears to save a man from a gang of muggers,
when reality has apparently been warped and there is no "Trinity" of
Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, and apparently never has been. Ragman
is joined by a sidekick named Tatters, wearing a green tattered hoodless
costume and mask. At first, he is seen confronting an alternate version
of Green Arrow, a vigilante on the service of the wealthy who ignores
the poor, and later, due to a chronal blast, is seen assuming Batman's
position as premier vigilante of Gotham.

"Battle For The Cowl"

Ragman briefly appears in The Network one-shot for the "Battle for the
Cowl" storyline, assisting Cassandra Cain and the Huntress in tracking
down a group of hostages around Gotham. After removing the duct tape
from the mouth of a gagged woman, Ragman proceeds to berate her for her
apparent drug addiction, telling her she'll never truly be free until
she takes hold of her life.

"Blackest Night"

During the 2009-2010 "Blackest Night" storylines, Nekron completely shut
down Ragman's suit by using the Black Lantern rings to reanimate all the
souls attached to his body.

Suit of Souls

In October 2010, Ragman starred in the one-shot Ragman: Suit of Souls.
It was written by Christos Gage and drawn by Stephen Segovia.

Later, Ragman is later shown aiding the JLA during their mission into
Hell, where he helps Green Arrow defeat the demon Anger.


Powers and abilities

The Ragman can draw upon the physical powers of any number of the
corrupted souls that make up his suit. This way he can increase his
strength, speed and stamina dozens or even hundreds of times over,
though he has stated that it isn't easy to tap into a large number of
souls at once (at the time, he commented that the most he had ever done
was somewhere over a hundred). This also allows Ragman to avoid most
wounds as he can use one of his other souls to take the damage for him,
allowing him to continue to operate at peak efficiency while the souls
he has trapped take the damage for him.

Most significantly, having defeated an enemy, he can acquire new souls
by absorbing them with the suit, although he can only do this for truly
evil souls; as an example, he was unable to absorb the soul of
super-villain Blue Moon because she was regularly sent to prison as her
powers only worked at night, her time in prison counting as her having
'served her time' and preventing Ragman 'punishing' her himself. This
adds a new rag to the suit, and thus adds to the Ragman's power supply.
However, Rory has mentioned that the process of acquiring a new soul
gives him stomach cramps and nausea. Once a corrupted soul has helped
him a certain amount of times, it is allowed to pass on to Heaven,
having earned redemption for the sins it committed in life that would
have sent it to Hell if it had simply died in the normal manner.

Also, the Ragman possesses a number of minor magical powers, such as
kinetically controlling the suit (i.e. entangling Eclipso with his cloak
while grappling with her). The suit will also automatically materialize
whenever he is in danger, and will normally teleport him to wherever
he's needed.

It has recently been revealed that the suit can take on other forms,
such as weapons and still collect souls. Whether Rory will use this
ability in the future is yet to be seen. To date, it has taken the forms
of a cloak in ancient Egypt, a spear during the Roman Empire, and a
dagger in 19th Century England.


Other versions

Cat-man

Jay Garson Junior, who first appeared in Holyoke Publishing's Cat-Man
#1 was the Golden Age Rag-Man. He first assumed his costumed identity
when, after writing an article denouncing a gang of criminals, he is in
a park and is shot at by one of them, only to have a tramp jump in front
of him and save his life. After discovering that the tramp is his exact
double, he switches clothes with him and makes it look like the
criminals have succeeded in shooting him. Dressed in the tramp's
tattered clothes, he then interrupts a meeting at the gang's hideout and
apprehends them. Because Holyoke never renewed their copyright on him,
the Rag-Man is public domain.


Appearances

Signature Series

  Signature Series
  -------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  Title
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Cry of the Dead
  Ragman: Suit of Souls One Shot

Team Appearances

Sentinels of Magic

  Sentinels of Magic
  ------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  Title
  Day of Judgement
  Day of Judgement
  Day of Judgement
  Day of Judgement
  Day of Judgement
  Day of Judgement Secret Files

Shadowpact

  Shadowpact
  ------------ -------------- ---------------
  Title
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact
  Shadowpact

Other Appearances

  Other Appearances
  ------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  Title
  Bat Family
  Cancelled Comic Cavalcade
  The Brave and the Bold
  Crisis on Infinite Earths
  Red Tornado
  Batman: Legends of the Dark Knight
  Batman: Legends of the Dark Knight
  Batman
  Batman
  JLA: The Nail
  JLA: The Nail
  Martian Manhunter
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance
  Day of Vengeance Special
  Robin
  Robin
  Robin
  52
  52
  Infinite Crisis
  Infinite Crisis
  Justice League Unlimited
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Reign in Hell
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Trinity
  Battle for the Cowl: The Network
  Azrael
  Batman: The Brave and the Bold
  Untold Tales of the Blackest Night
  Injustice: Gods Among Us Year Three
  Injustice: Gods Among Us Year Three
  Batwoman
  Batwoman
  Batwoman
  Batwoman
  Batwoman
  Batwoman
  Batwoman Annual

