RAVAGER is the name of five fictional comic book characters in the 
Universe, four villains and one hero. Four have appeared in series
featuring the Teen Titans and have a connection to the villain
Deathstroke, Slade Wilson.


Fictional character biography

Grant Wilson

The first Ravager is Deathstroke's older son GRANT WILSON, who dies
attempting to assassinate the Teen Titans under a contract from the
H.I.V.E., causing Deathstroke to hold the Titans responsible for his
death. Because of a procedure the H.I.V.E. undertook to imitate his
father's abilities, he gains enhanced strength and reflexes.

In Teen Titans, vol.3, #31 (February 2006), Grant was temporarily
resurrected by Brother Blood to guard Kid Eternity. In the Teen Titans
tie-in to the Blackest Night crossover, Grant Wilson was reanimated as
a member of the Black Lantern Corps, attacking his father and
half-sister.

The New 52

After the events of Flashpoint, Grant's history was changed. He appears
to have been beaten and killed in an explosion by Midnighter, but
returned after a few years trying to kill his father. Grant
surreptitiously manipulates Deathstroke, by allying himself with the
fathers of one of Slade's victims and sending a number of villains
called Legacy to weaken the mercenary before really facing him. In the
aftermath, even having a chance to kill Deathstroke, Grant hesitated and
simply walked away.

Ravager (Batman)

This Ravager first appeared in Batman #440 (October 1989) during the
first part of the story arc which introduced Tim Drake; he kills several
people, including two policemen, in order to catch Batman's attention.
This Ravager is hired by Two-Face to kill Batman, but fails. This is his
only appearance.

Bill Walsh

[Bill Walsh battling Deathstroke, in Deathstroke the Terminator #4.
Art by Mike Zeck] The third Ravager is BILL WALSH, a former rival of
Deathstroke's who takes up the title to lure Deathstroke into battle.
Years before assuming the name Ravager, Walsh was involved in the
kidnapping of Slade's younger son, Joseph (who became the hero Jericho),
which ultimately resulted in Joseph's throat being slit and his becoming
mute. As Ravager, Walsh attempts to kill Slade with a bomb. Slade
instead kills Walsh and defuses the bomb.

Wade DeFarge

The fourth Ravager is Slade's half brother, WADE DEFARGE, a small-time
hitman who uses the name in mockery of Slade. This leads to more than he
bargained for, as Deathstroke orchestrates a series of events that lead
to him being killed and supplanted by Rose Wilson, Deathstroke's
daughter, who Deathstroke then manipulates into becoming the new
Ravager.

In the Teen Titans tie-in to the Blackest Night crossover, Wade
DeFarge was reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps, attacking
Rose and Slade. He fights Rose, who attempts to incinerate him, but then
finds out that Wade was possessed by her brother Jericho.

Rose Wilson

The fifth Ravager is Rose Wilson, Slade's illegitimate daughter. At one
period, Deathstroke manipulates and brainwashes her into becoming his
apprentice. After a brief stint training with Nightwing in an attempt to
make the Secret Society of Super Villains leave Bl√ºdhaven alone, Rose
realizes that Deathstroke does not have her best interests at heart and
leaves him. One year after the events of Infinite Crisis, she has
joined the Teen Titans, as seen in Teen Titans vol. 3 #34 (May 2006).


The Ravagers

In The New 52, the Ravagers are a group of super-powered teens who have
escaped the plans of Harvest in The Culling. The Ravagers title first
appeared as part of The New 52's Second Wave in 2012. The team was
formed after the Teen Titans and the Legionnaires stuck in the present
day were abducted by Harvest, and then later stopped the villain and
escaped. The team includes Beast Boy, Terra, Thunder and Lightning,
Ridge and Fairchild.


In other media

-   Summer Glau portrays Isabel Rochev on The CW's Arrow, who dons the
    moniker of Ravager. In the second season episode, "The Man Under the
    Hood" Rochev is mortally wounded by John Diggle in an altercation to
    save Roy Harper. Later, she is saved by a blood transfusion from
    Deathstroke, who is coursing with the serum Mirakuru. In "City of
    Blood", Rochev is seen, as Ravager, attempting to exact revenge
    on Diggle. Later, in "Streets of Fire", Felicity Smoak arrives and
    plows into an unsuspecting Ravager with her vehicle, allowing for
    Diggle's getaway. Seemingly unfazed, Ravager is next seen
    assassinating city employees by order of Deathstroke, the last of
    which is Star City's mayor Sebastian Blood, who betrayed them. In
    "Unthinkable", Ravager is among those captured by the Arrow, Canary,
    Arsenal, Nyssa al Ghul and her League of Assassins. She later proves
    uncooperative and Nyssa breaks her neck, apparently killing her.
-   Jamie Andrew Cutler portrays Grant Wilson in The CW's Arrow
    spinoff Legends of Tomorrow episode "Star City 2046". In a
    potential future, this version takes up the name Deathstroke in
    tribute to his father, and starts an uprising that drives Star City
    to ruin.

