RED TORPEDO is the name of two fictional characters. One originally
published by Quality Comics and another currently owned by .
The original is a superhero named JIM LOCKHART while the second is an
android created T. O. Morrow. Jim Lockhart debuted in Crack Comics #1
(May 1940).


Jim Lockhart

Jim Lockhart was a navy captain until he retired in 1940. Unable to
settle down, he began building a one-man submarine known as "The Red
Torpedo." Using the devices onboard, he became the peacekeeper of the
seas, the Robin Hood of the deep. His run as a hero for Quality comics
consisted of Crack Comics 1-20. His most common enemy was the Black
Shark, a pirate of sorts. He discovered the Atlantean city of Merezonia
and its Mermazon population, he later fell in love with its ruler, his
former nemesis, Queen Klitra.

Hours before the attack on Pearl Harbor, Red Torpedo was recruited by
Uncle Sam to join the Freedom Fighters in defending the base. He fell
with the other heroes and was left for dead. Later, it was revealed that
he was not dead, but he did retire after this.

Red Torpedo was seen aiding the Starman of 1951 in building his
spaceship, The Flying Star. He was most recently seen as one of the
administrators of Windward Home in Aquaman: Sword of Atlantis,_ along
with Elsa Magnusson, widow of Mark Merlin.


Android

A new female android Red Torpedo debuted in Red Tornado (vol. 2) #1
(November, 2009). This Red Torpedo was revealed to be the first
elemental android created by T.O. Morrow during the days of the Soviet
Union, years before the conception of the Red Tornado. But much like her
younger "sibling" the Tornado, the Torpedo rebelled against Morrow's
control and he deactivated her, hiding her inside the sunken wreck of a
battleship in the waters of Pearl Harbor as a type of sick joke. The
Torpedo spent years inside the ship when she managed to send out a
beacon to the Tornado and her two other "siblings", the Red Volcano and
the Red Inferno. She is eventually found and reactivated by the Tornado,
and while she readjusts to the world, she informs the Tornado about the
existence of the other two elementals and the Red Volcano's cruelty. At
the same time, the Tornado is having a hard time keeping the Torpedo in
check, as she exhibits somewhat more lethal methods, although she claims
that she doesn't intend to kill people when she tries to defend
herself.


In other media

Both characters were adapted for the Young Justice episode "Humanity"
voiced by Jeff Bennett. For the episode the Quality character was used
as the "human" identity of Morrow's first android. This carried through
to the android appearing male rather than female as the later comic book
character was.

