REFLECTO is a fictional superhero from  who first appeared as a
statue of a dead Legion of Super-Heroes member in Adventure Comics
#354 (March 1967) in the "Adult Legion" story, which purported to depict
the Legion farther in the future than the regular Legion series.
Reflecto was mentioned as having been "killed in a duel with the
Molecule Master."


Fictional character biography

In the early 1970s, Dave Cockrum planned a Legion spin-off series called
the Outsiders, which would have, among other characters, included
Nightcrawler (who was later introduced in the  team the
X-Men) and Reflecto, in his first appearance as a living character. This
series, however, was not produced.

Reflecto was first introduced as a character in Legion of Super-Heroes
#277â€“280 (July 1981). His initial appearance suggested that he was Ultra
Boy with amnesia, but he was soon revealed to be Superboy, (whose body
was being possessed by the consciousness of the apparently dead Ultra
Boy), who was suffering from a form of amnesia brought on by his
inadvertent disobedience to a post-hypnotic command implanted in his
mind by Saturn Girl. The post-hypnotic command forbade Superboy to ever
return to the 30th century; it was given to prevent Superboy from
altering history after learning the time and cause of the deaths of his
adoptive parents, Jonathan and Martha Kent.

After unknowingly arriving in the 30th century, Superboy found himself
on a world with very high gravity. His superpowers were somewhat
diminished, and he could not immediately leave the planet. He
encountered a very powerful beast which attacked him repeatedly until
Superboy discovered that it was attracted to the colors of his hair and
uniform as everything on the planet was reddish-orange. To end the
attacks, Superboy used his heat vision to fuse the planet's reddish sand
to his hair and uniform, thereby changing their color.

After some time, he was able to leave the planet, but he did not know
where he was. He was also unaware that he had traveled through time.
Upon discovering that he was in the 30th century, the conflict with the
post-hypnotic command caused a form of extreme denial/amnesia. This,
combined with his now unrecognizable appearance led to the formation of
the Reflecto identity. In his mind, if he was not "Superboy", then he
was not violating the post-hypnotic command.

Reflecto was revealed to be Superboy when he threw himself in front of
an energy discharge intended to kill Phantom Girl. The intense energy
vaporized the fused sand from the indestructible Kryptonian fabric and
revealed the "S"-symbol on his uniform. Saturn Girl then removed the
command and restored his mind. Superboy returned to his own time and
agreed not to return to the 30th century.

The statue of the "dead" Ultra Boy in the Legion's hall of dead
Legionnaires was changed into one of Reflecto, fulfilling the
description seen on the statue in the "Adult Legion" story.

In Legion of Super-Heroes (4th series) Annual #1, which happened after
continuity changes erased Superboy from history, Reflecto was shown as
an actual person in a one-panel flashback. The 2995 Legion of
Superheroes Sourcebook, written by the writers of the Legion series but
not considered canon by , explained that this Reflecto was
killed by the Molecule Master as mentioned on the statue featured in the
"Adult Legion" story.

A character appeared briefly in the March 2006 issue of Legion of
Super-Heroes (5th series, #14) as a crazed fan overcome by the death of
Dream Girl. Believing that he and Dream Girl were meant to be together,
he lashed out at the Legion by reflecting their powers against them. He
was subdued by Triplicate Girl as there was nothing to reflect against
an "ordinary" girl. Shortly afterwards he was referred to as "Reflecto"
by Shadow Lass.

