RESURRECTION MAN (real name MITCH SHELLEY) is a fictional character, a
superhero who appears in American comic books published by .


Publication history

The character first appeared in Resurrection Man #1 and was created by
Andy Lanning, Dan Abnett and Jackson Guice.


Background

Resurrection Man was created by British writers Dan Abnett and Andy
Lanning and American artist Butch Guice. The initial idea came to them
while working for  in the early 90s. Abnett and Lanning
considered reviving the Great Lakes Avengers, a superhero team led by a
character called Mr Immortal. They felt that Mr Immortal was boring
because immortality was his only power. Lanning thought the character
would be more interesting if he gained a different superpower with every
resurrection. When they moved to , they proposed the concept
to the editors.

Mitch Shelley made his debut in Resurrection Man #1 (1997). The
character was written as a non-traditional superhero who did not wear a
colorful costume or regularly associate with the likes of the Justice
League. The book series was written like a TV series, with a grand story
arc in which Shelley wanders America in search of the truth behind his
past and his transformation. The first volume of Resurrection Man was
critically acclaimed but was not a big success. It was cancelled in 1999
after 27 issues, though Mitch kept making occasional guest appearances
in other books.

In 2011,  editor Eddie Berganza asked Abnett and Lanning to revive
Resurrection Man as an ongoing title. The new series debuted in
September 2011, with Fernando Dagnino Guerra as the artist, but was
cancelled in September 2012 after 13 issues (numbered 1 through 12 with
the final issue being numbered 0) due to mediocre sales.


Volume 1

Born in Viceroy, South Carolina, Mitchell "Mitch" Shelley became a
lawyer who found himself an unwilling test subject for experimentation
in nanotechnology, involving specialized devices nicknamed "tektites" by
an organization known only as "the Lab". The experiments cost Shelley
his memory for several months but also rendered him immortal albeit with
a twist: he could still be killed but the death would last a matter of
seconds (perhaps minutes at most due to the tektites) and he would be
reborn with a superpower influenced by the way he was last killed. A
comment by the Phantom Stranger in RM #18 about having worked with
Shelley in previous lifetimes suggests that there is more to his powers
than just the tektites. However, the series never expanded on this
point.

Shelley's travels in search of the truth of his identity and his
newfound powers would take him across the United States, leading him
into an ongoing feud with assorted adversaries including Vandal Savage,
the Body Doubles and others, as well as alliances and friendship with
various members of the Justice League (although he did not feel
comfortable acting in a traditional superhero role). At least one
alternate future has established Shelley's survival and long-term League
membership into the 853rd Century. By then he had developed a device,
the Resurrector, attached to his wrist, that could kill him in a way
that allowed him to select specific powers (as opposed to the "Luck of
the draw" system his normal deaths went by), in addition to always
possessing super strength and flight comparable to Superman's. Vandal
Savage was able to use this device against him, reprogramming the
Resurrector to constantly kill Shelley, never giving him the chance to
resurrect, until the Martian Manhunter destroyed the device. However,
Shelley later returned alive in the subsequent  One Million 80-Page
Giant #1,000,000 (1999).


Powers

Whenever Shelley is killed, he returns to life with a different power
(or "gift" as he often refers to it) that correlates in some way to his
death. These range from minor, almost dismissive abilities, such as the
changing of his skin color and making pyrotechnic butterflies, to the
extraordinary, such as the ability to transform into a Hulk-like monster
with a bullet-proof hide. He can potentially become more powerful than
any other superhero on Earth if he "resurrects right". The source of his
power appears to be nanites called "tektites" that permeate his body,
although the Phantom Stranger claimed that Shelley had powers in
previous lives. Whenever Shelley dies, the tektites will leave his body,
consume biomatter from the surrounding environment, and use that
biomatter to rebuild Shelley's body. Shelley can resurrect whatever the
state of his remains, including total cremation.


Other versions

Elseworlds

During the run of Resurrection Man, Abnett and Lanning also wrote an
Elseworlds graphic novel called The Superman Monster which retold the
story of Frankenstein as a Superman story. This featured an actual
"resurrection man" (i.e. a body-snatcher) who was drawn to closely
resemble Mitch Shelley.


Collected editions

-   Resurrection Man Vol. 1 (Resurrection Man #1-13)
-   Resurrection Man Vol. 1: Dead Again (Resurrection Man Vol. 2 #1â€“7)
-   Resurrection Man Vol. 2: A Matter of Death and Life (Resurrection
    Man Vol. 2 #0, #8-12)

