RISK is a comic book character appearing in publications from .


Fictional character biography

Origins

Raised in the Colorado community of Cosmos, CODY DRISCOLL has lived
alone with his mother in one of the worst trailer parks. His father died
when he was just six months old. His mother has had two husbands since,
so it hasn't been easy for Cody.

Cody, although an above average student, was always a bit of a thrill
junkie and trouble maker. He made a hobby out of rebelling against
authority. It was during one such stunt, sneaking into the government
facility known as NORAD, Cody was suddenly teleported away.

Isiah Crockett (Joto), Toni Monetti (Argent) and Cody were all abducted
by the alien race, H'San Natall. Just before Crockett was abducted, The
Atom was caught in the energy stream and was transported as well. Once
on the alien ship, they meet and rescue another Earth girl (Prysm) who
was raised in a virtual reality environment that mimics life on Earth
(based on old TV shows from the 50's). The group of teenagers were able
to escape the aliens and return to Earth. 

Titans

During the adventure, the teens learned that they were half-alien, and
their mothers were impregnated by the H'San Natall. They discover they
were all born on June 21. Apparently, the kids were part of a sleeper
agent program by the H'San Natall to defeat the super-powered beings
already on Earth. The group stayed together, and with the funding of
Loren Jupiter, became the latest incarnation of the Teen Titans. Atom
decided to remain on the team to learn how to readjust to his life as a
teenager.

Teammate Prysm developed a crush on Cody, although he seemed more
interested in pursuing Argent at the time.

After a battle with Haze (Jarrod Jupiter), teammate Joto seemingly died,
leaving the team devastated. The group almost broke up after Joto's
â€˜death', and Argent was instrumental in initiating a membership drive to
keep the group together. The team stayed together for a time with new
members Fringe and Captain , Jr. joining as well. 

After another altercation with the H'San Natall and The Veil, the team
discovered that Joto was actually alive. They rescued him, and Prysm and
Fringe elected to remain in space. As Risk said goodbye to Prysm, he
told her he loved her. The rest of the team decided to go their separate
ways and disbanded. Risk returned to Colorado to resume living with his
mother. 

Risk aided the Titans again during the Technis Imperative conflict,
which involved the Justice League as well as all Titans, past and
present. The two teams were of seemingly opposing sides concerning the
fate of the Titans member Cyborg, whose actions were threatening the
entire Earth. Risk himself jumpstarted a brutal fight between the teams
when he attacks by himself and is struck down hard by Orion. The two
teams eventually work together to save the earth and Cyborg.

Infinite Crisis

After that time, Risk embarked on a career of petty crime, becoming a
fugitive. Later, however, he seemed to return to more heroic ways. In
Infinite Crisis #4, Kon-El called in all the reserve Titans to help
him battle Superboy-Prime. When the other Titans attacked him,
Superboy-Prime lashed back; not aware of the full extent of his powers,
he ended up brutally maiming and murdering several of the Titans
(including killing Pantha and Wildebeest). Risk was one of his victims,
as Superboy-Prime ripped off his right arm during the battle. In Teen
Titans #32, it was shown that Argent used her plasma energy to stop the
blood flowing to his shoulder, saving his life. 

Titans East

One Year Later, Risk is a member of the group Titans East. In an
interview, writer Geoff Johns stated that "You're going to meet him in
the next issue and see where he is in his life. He's still missing an
arm. And his attitude is like, at one point someone's going to say, 'Why
don't you get a cybernetic arm?' And he says, 'I only need one arm.'
That's his attitude. He's just kind of gruff and at the end of his
rope." 1

He has, in fact, resurfaced in where he's shown living a life of petty
crimes in Colorado, for the thrill of it, apparently addicted to
painkillers. Returning to his dirty camper in a Bidonville, he is
approached and blackmailed by Deathstroke into joining Titans East.

Cody, and Batgirl, break into Bombshell's prison cell and kill her for
not upholding her bargain with Deathstroke (Bombshell is later seen
alive). Risk then captures Cyborg, rips his arms and legs off and
punches him repeatedly. He continues to do so, until at last Raven
forces him to relive the pain of his arm being ripped off, at which
point she and Duela Dent free Cyborg and escape to get help from
Nightwing and his old group of Titans. Risk recovers from Raven's attack
and defeats Robin and Batgirl (who was freed from Deathstroke's mind
control) before Nightwing and his team arrive. He along with a majority
of the Titans East are defeated.

The Sinestro Corps War

In Tales of the Sinestro Corps: Superman-Prime, Risk returns in the
battle of Earth's heroes against Superman-Prime in revenge for pulling
off his right arm during Infinite Crisis. However, Prime then tears
Risk's left arm off as well.


Powers and abilities

Risk is stronger and faster than the average human, and his senses are
more acute. His strength, speed and senses are multiplied about six
times the average human. He is hyper everything. The adrenaline rushing
through his body makes him take a greater Risk each time.

