ROSE PSYCHIC is a  heroine affiliated with the company's first
superhero, Doctor Occult. They were created by Jerry Siegel and Joe
Shuster, the creators of Superman. She first appeared in More Fun
Comics #6 (October 1935). She appeared in Dr. Occult's first story, and
then disappears from the story until 1938. After Dr. Occult's original
stories ended in late 1938, Rose did not appear again for more than
fifty years.


Fictional character biography

In a retcon later added to their origin, Richard Occult and Rose Psychic
were raised by a group of mystics known as the Seven, characters from a
story in More Fun Comics #14â€“17.

In 1991 Neil Gaiman brought the characters back to public awareness,
when he featured them in the miniseries The Books of Magic. In the
third issue Doctor Occult acts as Tim Hunter's guide to otherworlds.
When visiting Faerie, he transforms into Rose. Although only alluded to,
Gaiman suggests that Rose Psychic and Richard Occult represent anima and
animus, feminine and masculine versions of the same person. Throughout
the third issue of The Books of Magic, Rose Psychic and Richard Occult
switch back and forth depending upon the situation. During gentle
negotiations, the feminine Rose is in control; during a tense conflict
between a giant guardian, an encounter with an amorous bard, and bitter
negotiations with the queen of the fairies, Titania, the masculine
Doctor Occult is in charge.

Eventually, in the miniseries The Return of the Justice Society, it
would be explained that when Doctor Occult was once killed in battle
against an otherworldly entity, Rose bonded their souls together to
restore him.

In the Reign in Hell miniseries, it is revealed that during one of
their cases, Rose was killed by a pack of demons and her soul was
separated from their shared body. In the midst of an infernal civil war,
Doctor Occult descends into Hell to retrieve her soul. He finds Rose
serving in the army of Purgatory but she refuses his offer of rescue,
choosing instead to remain in Hell bringing hope to damned souls who
believe they have no chance at redemption.

Physical appearance

Having become magically immortal, Doctor Occult and Rose Psychic have
not aged and still look the same as they always have. Rose's hairstyle
is a flapper bob cut. Sometimes, she dresses in a sports jacket with a
skirt.

