RUBBERDUCK (real name BYRD RENTALS) is a fictional character in the 
Comics universe, an anthropomorphic duck. Rubberduck is a superhero who
lived on the otherdimensional world of Earth-C (now Earth-26), an
alternate Earth populated by sentient animals. His first appearance was
in a special insert in The New Teen Titans #16 (February 1982).

Rubberduck's alter-ego's name, "Byrd Rentals," is a play on actor Burt
Reynolds; being Burt Reynolds' Earth-C/26 counterpart, Byrd Rentals'
career roughly matched that of Burt Reynolds', starring in films such as
The Longest Yarn (a play on The Longest Yard) and Smoke-Eye and
the Panda (a play on Smokey and the Bandit).


Fictional character biography

While being interviewed by gossip columnist Rova Barkitt as he was
lounging in his hot tub, Byrd was struck by a glowing meteor fragment
(which was launched toward Earth by the villain Starro the Conqueror);
the result gave him the power to stretch his body into any shape.
Joining with Rova (who was also transformed by a separate meteor
fragment), the two teamed up with other super-powered animals affected
by the meteor; together, the group defeated Starro (with the aid of
Superman), and decided to form the superhero team called the Zoo
Crew.

Byrd, like Rova, tended to reflect the values of his Follywood roots,
often making various entertainment industry references while fighting
foes or dealing with others. He also took great pleasure in the
celebrity his civilian identity afforded him, though he was still
friendly towards and respectful of his teammates, allowing them use of
his Follywood mansion. He was also far less elitist and snobbish than
Rova, preferring "lowbrow" pursuits such as video games and fast
automobiles to mixing with Follywood high society.

In Teen Titans #30-31 (December 2005-January 2006), Rubberduck is
mentioned in a series of pages purporting to be a Zoo Crew comic
published in the mainstream  Universe, and follows the adventures of
the Zoo Crew teammates in a grimmer, darker version of Earth-C,
parodying the recent trend toward "grim and gritty" superhero comics. In
these pages, Rubberduck is shown working with Pig Iron separate from the
rest of the then-disbanded team.

In the Countdown tie-in miniseries Captain Carrot and the Final Ark
(October-December 2007), the team reunites in the midst of growing
strife between the land and the sea creatures of the newly re-classified
Earth-26, strife that is sparked by Starro. The Zoo Crew eventually
encounter Starro, who hypnotizes them into believing they have lost
their powers. Only Pig Iron (who isn't present at the time) and American
Eagle (who has no super powers) are unaffected. Starro then floods the
Earth, rendering it uninhabitable. The Zoo Crew attempt to rescue part
of the Earth's populace using an ocean liner loaded with refugees, which
is transported off the planet by the Just'a Lotta Animals. The ship is
then accidentally sent to New Earth. The Justice League encounters the
ship and lands it safely, though all the passengers, including
Rubberduck and the rest of the Zoo Crew, are transformed into
non-anthropomorphic animals.

As of Final Crisis #7, Rubberduck, along with the rest of the Zoo
Crew, has his humanity and powers restored by the renegade Monitor Nix
Uotan.


Powers and abilities

Rubberduck possesses the ability to stretch and contort his body into
various shapes, similar to the  hero Elongated Man or 
Comics' Mr. Fantastic. However, he is not a shapeshifter. His rubbery
body makes him highly resistant to injury, though he can suffer painful
damage if his body's elasticity is overtaxed (similar to severe muscle
pulls). His powers are a permanent conditionâ€”i.e., he cannot turn his
powers "off", though he can maintain his "normal" shape without effort.
Thus, he is prone to being stretched against his will by someone
stronger than he is, and can be restrained by essentially being tied up
with himself (having his stretchy limbs wrapped around his body or an
immovable object such as a tree and tied into knots to prevent him from
unwrapping them).

