The Stone Boy}} STONE BOY is a fictional character, a superhero in the
 Universe.

Stone Boy was born Dag Wentim on the planet Zwen. All people on the
planet Zwen can petrify their bodies. They developed this ability to put
themselves into suspended animation for their planet's six-month-long
nights. Dag's hair is not affected by the transformation. While Stone
Boy is in his petrified form, he cannot move. Through practice and
concentration Dag can turn just part of his body into stone, such as his
fist. He tried out for the Legion of Super-Heroes, but was rejected when
his power was deemed too static to accomplish anything positive. Along
with several other failed applicants, he helped to form the Legion of
Substitute Heroes.

In Adventure Comics #315, Stone Boy won membership in the Legion of
Superheroes in a contest. He declined the membership because he did not
want to abandon the Legion of Substitute Heroes.

Stone Boy appeared in the one-shot Legion of Substitute Heroes comic
book, where he was portrayed in a more comical fashion. Stone Boy is
stuck in the ground for most of this story after being dropped from a
great height.

In the "Five Years Later" Legion continuity, Stone Boy is shown to have
gained the ability to move while in stone form.

In the Action Comics storyline "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes", Stone Boy and his fellow substitutes are sent to distract
the renegade Justice League. Stone Boy is used as a projectile to damage
the Justice League's base.


In other media

Stone Boy appears in two episodes of the Legion of Super Heroes
animated series, "Lightning Storm" and "The Substitute". His character
was voiced by Yuri Lowenthal.

