SUNBURST is the name of two fictional Japanese superheroes published by
.


Fictional character biography

Takeo Sato

This Sunburst first appeared in New Adventures of Superboy #45
(September 1983), and was created by Paul Kupperberg and Alex Saviuk.
TAKEO SATO gained the ability to turn solar energy into light or heat
after inhaling volcanic vapors as a child. He accidentally discovers his
powers when working as a stuntman on the low-budget television series
"Sunburst." When the cables used to make him appear to fly break, he
finds out that he can actually fly. At first keeping his powers a
secret, he is forced to use them to commit robberies after his parents
are kidnapped by gang of crooks. Sato frees them with the help of
Superboy, and decides to become a superhero for real. Sunburst is a
founding member of the Japanese equivalent of the Justice League of
America, a team called Big Science Action.

During the Crisis, he unites with Dr. Light and Rising Sun to save the
Earth from the Anti-Monitor. He is killed by one of the Anti-Monitor's
Shadow Demons in Crisis on Infinite Earths #12 (March 1986).

Post-Crisis, it was clarified in the pages of ' Who's Who
editions that Rising Sun was retconned into Superboy's role in
Sunburst's origins.

Celebrity Sunburst

Grant Morrison introduced a new version of Sunburst in Doom Patrol
vol. 2 #26 (September 1989). This version proclaims himself to be one of
Japan's "greatest super heroes" and is constantly trailed by the media.
He even has his own show and manga, "The Adventures of the New
Sunburst". This Sunburst is responsible for bringing in the woman who
would later be known as the Quiz, before being ambushed by the
Brotherhood of Dada and disgraced on national television. He is then
sucked into the living cyclone known as Frenzy; it is unknown if he
survives. Whether or not he had a connection with Takeo Sato, the
original Sunburst, was never revealed.

