VALENTINA VOSTOK (alternately spelled VALENTINA VOSTOCK) is a fictional
character by . She first appeared in Showcase #94, (August
1977), and was created by Paul Kupperberg and Joe Staton.


Fictional character biography

Lt. Col. Valentina Vostok of the Soviet Air Force stole an experimental
Russian fighter plane in order to defect to the USA. The plane
malfunctioned en route and she crash-landed at the spot where the
original Doom Patrol had apparently perished and was fused with the
negative energy being which formerly inhabited the body of the Patrol's
Negative Man. However, instead of being able to send it out from her
body under her control, Vostok gained the ability to transform herself
into such a being. Years later, it was revealed by Doom Patrol villain
the Brain that Niles Caulder, founder of the Doom Patrol, manipulated
Valentina's transformation into a superhero in order to create a
replacement for presumed dead Negative Man.

Assuming the name NEGATIVE WOMAN, Valentina defected to the United
States and became a member of the second incarnation of Doom Patrol for
several years. Valentina became romantically involved with teammate
Joshua Clay, aka Tempest, but broke off the relationship due to the
nature of her powers changing to match that of her predecessor: her body
became permanently radioactive, requiring her to constantly wear
radiation-blocking bandages over all of her body, and the radio-energy
being would emerge from her under her mental command.

Ultimately, when Negative Man was found alive and rescued by the new
Doom Patrol, the negative energy abandoned Valentina and was returned to
Larry Trainor. Though she was initially furious at having lost her power
and being replaced by Negative Man, his ultimate rejection of the power
allowed for Valentina to leave the Doom Patrol on good terms, unaware of
the fact that the negative energy being would ultimately return and
claim Trainor again, turning him into Rebis.

Valentina would go on to work for the American secret services, being
involved in a number of US government departments including serving for
a time as head of the Agency and working for the original incarnation of
Checkmate.

White Queen

Vostok was later named White Queen of the current incarnation of
Checkmate, replacing Amanda Waller.

Final Crisis

A Negative Woman was among those in the Bl√ºdhaven Strike Force in Final
Crisis #4 sent by Checkmate. Included are Count Vertigo and Atomic
Knights. Vostok is seen under Darkseid's control in Final Crisis:
Resist.

Blackest Night

Valentina was apparently killed during the events of Final Crisis, as
her corpse is reanimated as a member of the undead Black Lantern Corps
during the Doom Patrol series' Blackest Night tie-in storyline. She
attacks Larry Trainor, using a corrupted version of the Negative
creature (whether this is a construct created by her black power ring,
or a revival of her former powers, is not made clear). Trainor
absorbs both Negative Creatures, taking control and sending both of them
into Valentina. This causes her body to overload and explode, destroying
the black ring.

New 52

In the New 52 reboot(2011) , Negative Woman first appears in Justice
League vol.2 #24 in a camera being watched by Grid, and later comes back
in Justice League vol.2 #27 where she was seemingly killed off by Johnny
Quick and Atomica.


Powers and abilities

Valentina formerly possessed a radioactive "soul-self", and was capable
of flight and intangibility, and could generate minor explosions upon
contact with positive energy. She no longer possesses these abilities.


In other media

Valentina Vostok appears in Legends of Tomorrow portrayed by Stephanie
Corneliussen, in the episodes "White Knights" and "Fail-Safe". In
1986, Vostok is a Soviet scientist employed by Vandal Savage to develop
a composite "nuclear man" similar to Firestorm; Savage had witnessed
Firestorm in action a decade previously as part of Rip Hunter's team.
Savage and Vostok capture Dr. Martin Stein and torture Stein's allies to
force him to divulge the secrets of the matrix. Vostok discovers that
Stein is part of the matrix, and forces him to merge with her. She
ignores his warning that the result will be unstable without the
"quantum splicer" developed to stabilize the fusion process. Jefferson
Jackson encourages Stein to fight Vostok's control, giving Jackson an
opportunity to touch the composite and break Stein free. Vostok loses
control of the matrix, and the energy is released as a nuclear
explosion. Hunter's team escapes, but Vostok's status is not revealed.

