THE WONDER TWINS, ZAN and JAYNA, are a fictional extraterrestrial twin
brother and sister superhero duo who first appeared in Hanna-Barbera's
American animated television series Super Friends. They subsequently
appeared in comics based on the animated series, and were later
introduced into the main  Universe. They have since appeared in
other media, including animated series such as Justice League
Unlimited and Teen Titans Go!_, and the live-action TV series
Smallville.


Publication history

The duo made their debut in The All-New Super Friends Hour and went on
to appear in The World's Greatest Super Friends, Super Friends, and
Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show. Zan (voiced by Michael
Bell) and Jayna (voiced by Louise Williams) are siblings from the planet
Exxor (also spelled Exor) who were being informally trained by the
superheroes. Unlike their predecessors, Wendy Harris and Marvin White,
this pair was able to participate in combat with abilities of their own.

Hanna Barbera animator Darrell McNeil recalls the twins were created by
Norman Maurer, the Super Friends series developer/story editor. They
were originally called Dick and Jane, and their sidekick was Mighty
Monkey, before finally becoming Zan, Jayna, and Gleek. The names "Zan"
and "Jayna" derived from the Edgar Rice Burroughs characters Tarzan and
his romantic interest Jane. According to McNeil, "Originally Zan (Dick)
had 'Plastic Man' powers and Jayna (Jane) could transform into anything,
not just animals, but they were scaled back to their present powers as
it made the other Super Friends (even Superman) seem almost
superfluous." Jayna's distinctive hairdo was based on that of an
animation checker at Hanna-Barbera, while the pointed ears were inspired
by the character Spock from the Star Trek franchise. The twins'
personalities were heavily based on Donny and Marie Osmond, who were
extremely popular at the time and had their own show on ABC as well.

The Wonder Twins were the most prominently featured characters in their
first season on Super Friends. However, by the final seasons, the
twins were largely marginalized in favor of well established 
teenage superheroes like Firestorm, and were wholly eliminated in the
final season in favor of Cyborg.

The characters were introduced to comics in issue #7 of the Super
Friends tie-in series (October 1977), by E. Nelson Bridwell and Ramona
Fradon. The Super Friends comic book provided considerably more
details of the Wonder Twins' background and how they came to join the
team than was provided in the television series.

In the 1990s, they were introduced into the main  Universe in Extreme
Justice #9 (October 1995), by Ivan Velez, Jr. and Al Rio. The series
rewrote and updated their origin story. Velez, an avowed die-hard fan of
the Wonder Twins, intended to begin a revival of the characters, but was
taken off the series after the first issue with the Wonder Twins. Though
the twins remained with the series until its cancellation with #18, they
were used only sparingly after Velez's departure.


Fictional character biography

Super Friends

Little background is provided for the Wonder Twins in the Super
Friends cartoon, save that they are superheroes-in-training that are
friends of the Super Friends.

According to the Super Friends comic book by E. Nelson Bridwell
(writer) and Ramona Fradon (artist), Zan and Jayna are Exorian metas,
genetic throwbacks to an ancient race of Exorian shapeshifters. Their
parents died when they were still babies during a plague, and, because
of their origin, no Exorians want to adopt them. They are adopted by the
owner of a Space Circus who only wants to use them as sideshow freaks.
Fortunately, the circus' clown (or "laugh-maker") is a kind man and
raises them. He also gives them Gleek as a pet. Eventually, as teens,
the pair escape the circus and hide on a planet where a space villain
called Grax (an enemy of Superman) has established his headquarters.
Spying on him, they learn that Grax is planning to destroy the Earth
using hidden superbombs. The twins decide to travel to Earth and warn
the Justice League, which is how they come to replace Wendy and Marvin
(who were planning on retiring as heroes anyway) as their sidekicks. The
heroes arrange for the kids to live with an old scientist named
Professor Carter Nichols and they even take secret identities as Johan
and Joanna Fleming. "Johan" and "Johanna" were supposedly transfer
students from Esko, Sweden, disguised with blonde hair (Zan wore a wig,
while Jayna uses her powers to transform into a human to change her hair
color and ear shape), to allow them to attend Gotham City High School.


Powers and abilities

The Wonder Twins powers are activated when they touch each other and
speak the phrase, "Wonder Twin powers activate!" Physical contact is
required. If the two are out of reach of each other, they are unable to
activate their powers. As they are about to transform, they would each
announce their intended form. "Shape of...", "Form of..."

Zan can transform into water at any state (solid, liquid, gas) and add
to his mass by incorporating water in his immediate area. In the case of
becoming solid ice, he can also become any form he chooses, from a 5,000
foot humanoid ice giant to a cage for a criminal to complex machinery
(such as a jet engine, as he did in the episode "Eruption"). He changes
into a gelatinous form at one point. On another occasion, he transformed
into liquid nitrogen. In addition, he can transform himself into
atmospheric disturbances (usually very localized) involving water, such
as a blizzard, a monsoon, waterspout or a typhoon.

Jayna can transform into any animal, whether real, mythological,
indigenous to Earth or to some other planet, like Beast Boy. Since she
must vocalize her choice of form to assume, she must know the common
name. Naming the wrong animal will cause her to assume the wrong
animal's form. She has been known to take the form of anything from an
ant to a whale.

In the Super Friends comic book, their powers were shown to be more
extensive. By transforming into an animal of Kryptonian origin, for
instance, Jayna could gain both the creature's natural abilities and the
super-powers that all Kryptonians possess under Earth-like conditions;
she was even capable of overpowering Superman in the form of a
Kryptonian animal. Similarly, Zan was able to transform into anything
tangentially related to water or ice, including a frost giant.

In addition to their powers of transformation, the two share a
telepathic link, enabling one to alert the other over a distance when in
dire circumstances.

The Wonder Twins have a pet Space Monkey called Gleek who had a useful
prehensile tail and who could act as a conduit for the twins to activate
their powers should they be out of reach. Gleek also served as a courier
when the twins needed to travel: Jayna would typically transform into a
large eagle, and Zan would transform into water, "jumping" into a bucket
which Gleek would be holding while riding atop Jayna in her eagle form.
(This led to the joke by some fans that Gleek's superpower was to make a
bucket appear and disappear at will. See hammerspace._)

A rarely seen aspect of their powers is the ability to break mind
control. On at least two occasions ("Pied Piper From Space" and "Circus
of Horrors"), while the twins were under the influence of mind control,
Gleek caused them to make contact and the activation of their powers
freed them instantly from the mind control.


In comics

[The new, revamped Wonder Twins. Art by Todd Nauck.] In 1996, the twins
were introduced into post-Crisis  continuity in the series Extreme
Justice as escaped slaves of an alien overlord. Unable to speak
English, they inadvertently attack some civilians and the Justice
League. During their fight with the JLA, Zan becomes an ice golem, a
water monster, and a demonic-looking whirlpool, while Jayna becomes a
griffin, a werewolf, and a sea serpent. The pair are later
emancipated by the Justice League and join Captain Atom's team in issue
#16 (May 1996). That same year, they appeared in the crossover
storyline Final Night and in the series Total Justice.

In a 2002 - 2003 storyline by Peter David and Todd Nauck in Young
Justice, they help avenge the murder of Empress's parents, wearing
uniforms which resembled T-shirts and jeans. In late 2003, they
appeared in the fourth issue of the - intercompany crossover
miniseries JLA/Avengers, which was written by Kurt Busiek and
illustrated by George PÃ©rez.

In 2007, they appeared in ''Teen Titans' #70, and in 2011, they appeared
in U: Legacies #9, a story by Len Wein and Rob Leigh.

In "Smallville: Titans" a 2013 story arc in the series Smallville
season 11, Zan and Jayna are members of the team with Conner
Kent/Superboy, Speedy, Blue Beetle and Miss Martian at Jay Garrick's
school for the "gifted."

In the 2013 comic Justice League 3000, the handlers of the new Justice
League are named Teri and Terry, nicknamed The Wonder Twins and working
for Cadmus.


In other media

Television

Justice League/Justice League Unlimited

-   In the Justice League episode "Injustice For All", statues of the
    Twins are briefly seen in a museum devoted to super-powered heroes.
    Later in the same scene, the two statues are destroyed during the
    battle between the heroes and villains.
-   In Justice League Unlimited, two characters called DOWNPOUR and
    SHIFTER appear in the episode "Ultimatum" where they were both
    voiced by Grey DeLisle. They are members of the Ultimen, a group of
    superheroes created by the government and Project Cadmus with
    Maxwell Lord as their sponsor. The group is a pastiche of the heroes
    that were created for Super Friends, with Downpour and Shifter
    specifically a pastiche of the Wonder Twins. Downpour and his twin
    sister Shifter have albino white skin, pink eyes and pointy ears.
    Downpour would say the name of a liquid in order to turn into that
    liquid (like water and tidal wave) while Shifter would say the name
    of a creature (like a sea serpent, a lion, a rhinoceros, a cape
    buffalo, and a Tyrannosaurus) in order to become that creature.
    Later on in the episode, Downpour and Shifter were with the Ultimen
    when they learned on their own that the Ultimen were clones created
    by Project Cadmus. After Wind Dragon had used his wind attacks to
    bring Maxwell Lord to the roof that they were on, Downpour became
    water that entrapped Maxwell Lord while Shifter became a lion asking
    which is worse: drowning in water or being eaten by a lion. Maxwell
    Lord convinced them to let him explain over the fact that Project
    Cadmus had created them in order to be better heroes with the clones
    having implanted images and interact with actors that portrayed
    their parents. When it came to attacking the building they lived in
    while hunting for Maxwell Lord's boss Amanda Waller, Downpour and
    Shifter fought Aquaman and were defeated. Clones of the characters
    later appear in the episode "Panic in the Sky" where they join the
    other Ultimatum clones into attacking the Watchtower. Some clones of
    Downpour formed a water trap around Fire until she managed to heat
    herself to the point of breaking free.

Adult Swim

-   In 2001, Zan appeared in season 1, episode 2 of the Adult Swim
    series Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law. In the episode, Zan
    (voiced by Michael Bell) is on the stand being questioned by Harvey
    Birdman.
-   In 2007, the Adult Swim website ran a series of five webisodes
    entitled "The New Adventures of the Wonder Twins." These shorts were
    not canon, but rather a dark-humor parody. Zan and Jayna were
    portrayed as well-meaning but inept, with their attempts at heroism
    always ending in tragic failure.

Smallville

[David Gallagher as Zan and Allison Scagliotti as Jayna in the episode
"Idol".] Zan and Jayna appeared in the Smallville season nine episode,
"Idol", which aired on November 13, 2009. Zan was played by David
Gallagher and Jayna by Allison Scagliotti. They both carry cell phones
that have an image of Gleek on the back and that make the sound of Gleek
laughing as a ringtone. Though not explicitly labeled as aliens, the two
are implied to be from another world and claim to be of Swedish descent
in order to explain their odd-sounding names. The Twins are portrayed as
being obsessed with "The Blur" (the name given to Clark Kent before he
officially adopts the Superman identity), and attempt to impersonate him
in order to build up his positive reputation. They send a crate to young
reporter Lois Lane containing several bound and gagged drug dealers who
turn out to be undercover cops that Zan and Jayna abducted by mistake,
thus ruining a calculated police drug sting. When an attempt at stopping
a robbery accidentally causes a citywide blackout in Metropolis, the
Twins are ambushed and abducted by Clark and his partner Chloe Sullivan.
After being threatened into giving up their vigilante activities, Zan
and Jayna prove their worth when Lois is thrown from the rooftop of the
Daily Planet building by a crooked politician who wants to expose "The
Blur's" true identity. Jayna transforms into an attack dog and captures
the politician as he attempts to flee the scene, while Zan transforms
his body into a massive cloud of mist, providing the cover Clark needs
to lower Lois safely to the ground unobserved. After this, the Twins are
encouraged by Clark to continue their super heroics outside of
Metropolis, albeit on their own reputations rather than attempting to
emulate him.

Arrow

In the Arrow episode "Home Invasion", Detective Quentin Lance calls
Thea Queen and Roy Harper the Wonder Twins.

Teen Titans Go!_

The Wonder Twins appear in the Teen Titans Go!_ episode "You're Fired"
with Zan voiced by Khary Payton and Jayna voiced by Tara Strong. They
appear amongst the heroes at the audition for the replacement of Beast
Boy. Although Robin was impressed with Jayna, Zan was hired as a
receptionist with Jayna stating that she needs Zan to activate her
powers. Beast Boy works with Zan to sabotage Jayna's attempts. After Zan
comes clean, he turns into water and escapes into the toilet. In the
form of a pelican, Beast Boy catches Zan before he can land in the
ocean. Zan and Jayna later leave with Zan in the form of an ice unicycle
and Jayna in the form of an octopus.

